Feminine Fables An Art Creation. THERE is, on the first terrestrial shore which you reach on coming hither from the lower paradise, a solitary old thatched hut. The sea in winter beats up to the very door; and the windows, if there were any, would be continually misted by the spray of the high tides. But there arc no windows to this hut. The frames are ages since rotten, and the holes are boarded across with old wood, On certain nights smoke ascends from the tiny chimney, but never by day. There is never seen anyone there by day. The old woman who lives in the hut goes out with her basket and gathers the herbs and simples which she sells for a farthing or two at the farms behind the cliffs. She is a drunken old creature, or seems always slightly drunk, and this defect of character is, curiously, just what makes her tolerable to the peasants. If it were not for this, they would long since have persecuted her for a witch. Yet where she gets the means to be drunken nobody knows. Each supposes, perhaps, that the other secretly gives her a drop. She is coming down the stormy cliff-path now with a step unlike her usual dragging slouch ; a step very quick and vigorous for the old skeleton that she is. What a face of age and evil! Her chin and nose are sharp as points. Her heavy lips cannot meet over three huge black teeth. Her eyes are continually half-shut. She never opens them wide before people. If she did so, you would start back, for they are burning red, and she has double pupils. The winds and waves shrieked as she approached the shore, striding over the rocks toward her hut. She threw her basket down beside the door and flung it open, shouting in a horrible roar which outdid the rage of the sea : It is a human weakness, say they. She is yellow and grimy. ﬁWho dares break my peace?ﬂ In the middle of the hut stood a young woman, unlike any young woman you have ever seen. She had wings. Her long black hair was hard as forged iron. Her eyes were large and black and bright as magnifying glasses. Her skin was yellow as gold, her hands were red claws. Her teeth were made of diamonds. Her waist was fine as a wasp™s, and her hips and bust full and heavy as those of the imagined goddesses of the heathen. She was covered in veils fine as cobwebs and golden rings encircled her wrists and ankles. She eyed the old woman without a sign of fear, although the hag continued to look enraged and to demand ﬁWho dares break my peace?ﬂ The two creatures with burning eyes gazed at each other. The old woman wavered, muttered, and broke down, falling upon the floor, howling and screaming for pity. ﬁCome, mother !ﬂ said the young woman in a sweet, broken voice, ﬁI am not here to hurt you this time. You are to do me your service, and I will make you rich. ™™ ﬁYes, yes !ﬂ she answered, eagerly, ﬁWhat do you want of me? My beautiful, tell the old woman what you want her to do. But don™t send me off poisoning, darling. It is too dangerous, too dangerous. They will burn me, if they catch me. I™m old now, very old now.ﬂ The young woman stood over her, looking at her through those terrible great shining eyes, which would The hag sat up, cross-legged, on the floor. And don™t beat me, love ! never seem beautiful to us mortals. ﬁMake fire,ﬂ she said, and the witch hurried about seeking sticks and flints among the dirt and rubbish of the hut. The flame blazed up, and the old woman set an iron tripod over it and placed an iron bowl between the three legs right above the flames. Into the bowl she flung fat and herbs and poured a black liquid more ill-smelling than ten tanneries. ﬁThere, dearie,ﬂ she croaked, ﬁnow tell the old woman what you want her to do.ﬂ the other took a stool and sat on it, bending forward with her wings slightly outspread. ﬁListen, then, old earth-witch ! I have come to stop on this planet for seven of our infernal years.ﬂ The witch started. ﬁAnd your task is-to make me resemble the earth- women. ﬁMy pretty pet, I cannot do it !ﬂ screamed the witch, and she went green with terror. ﬁWhat! Not do it? Nonsense !ﬂ stormed the fay. ﬁWhy, your common earth hairdressers can change the colour of hair to any other coIour they please. Why, one of your famous writers states that for nothing more than a few pence he can re-cover anyone™s bald head with the down of childhood ! You will give me hair, or die ! Also, you are to reduce the size and splendour of my infernal eyes. . . .ﬂ Melt my hair and turn it a Titian red. . .ﬂ ﬁOh-oh ! I cannot !ﬂ groaned the witch. ﬁWhat ! Why, look at this advertisement here : ‚ Your height increased by two inches in two weeks. ™ If other witches can increase the whole size of a mortal you can decrease the size of the mere eyes of an immor- tal, which must be much easier. You will reduce my eyes-or die ! Then you are to replace my diamond teeth by ivory ones, change my yellow skin to the tints of the almond blossom, my white lips to cherries, and my red claws to lily-white hands, all according as I have heard is done daily here on earth.ﬂ ﬁAh, my dear,ﬂ said the witch trembling; ﬁall that is simply Art imitating Nature. If only your nature were human. . .ﬂ ﬁBah ! What you are to do, old witch, is to make Nature imitate Art. ﬁ ﬁDO you realise what you are asking?ﬂ cried the witch. ﬁYou are asking me to turn the world upside down! If once such an idea got abroad, the women would all seize hold of it. They would every one become a queen and rule from year™s end to year™s end with all the men bewildered between one beauty and another, and wanting the lot of them. My dear- they might all become friends. For there is nothing holds women together like an exchange of the secrets of the toilette. And I, who live by their quarrels, would have nothing to do. Nowadays, I have only to whisper a word about one ugly woman to another and there is the devil to pay. Nature makes plenty of ugly women, I thank my luck ! And ugly women have nothing to do but quarrel. But let your precious Art set up against Nature-why everyone can become a beauty so long as she follows the mode !ﬂ ﬁSo much the better,ﬂ replied the fairy, ﬁespecially since I am resolved to pass some time in the world. I do not want to waste my days in bickering and quarrelling. I mean to enjoy myself, and I want therefore to be great friends with heaps of women all beautiful a la mode, all joyous because all sure of awakening love, and so all that is amiable and friendly.ﬂ ﬁBut suppose one fell ill?)™ asked the witch. ﬁHow would one console oneself?ﬂ ﬁAh ! do not treat me to your melancholy philosophy. The ugly and unfashionable fall ill as often as the beautiful and well-arrayed ; and they groan as much !ﬂ ﬁBut suppose one grew poor?ﬂ asked the witch. ﬁThe rivalry between the naturally ugly and™ the naturally beautiful creates human poverty. Wealth is made to please women. When all women can be beautiful, they will all be happy, and emulous luxury, which is a sign of despair or, at least, of fear, will cease to have any reason. Art supplanting Nature will not suffer the poor. Art wants its form to be perfect. The wife of the coalman would be as rich as a Cabinet Minister-and it is upon her contentment, not his, that the harmonious form of society depends. Let a man rage as he may, but if his wife pleases him and herself lie will kill nobody. But do not bother me any longer ! I am not come here to arrange the world, but to enjoy myself. The first necessity is to be beautiful a la mode ! Once this is arranged, I shall understand as well as another how to conduct myself agreeably. You see that by Nature I am a Horror. You are to use your Art to make me a Charm. Cease your arguments and begin your work.ﬂ The witch began to weep, and the fairy frowned, continuing slowly : ﬁNothing can be beyond the powers of mortals since for one shilling and the mere swallowing of a pill, which to my knowIedge was mostly made of common soap, millions have been snatched from the jaws of Death and restored to mortal Life. You shall give me Life-or die! Also, do not forget this: you are to make me a great number of coins, since Life without coins is unknown to the mortals of your part of the world. In return for your jewels and coins I will bring you real earth-treasures, such as you covet forever. ﬂ ﬁYes ! yes ! But you know, my beautiful, that I have no power against the sun. I can make you resemble the earth-women by night, but the first break of dawn will see you back in your own shape.ﬂ ﬁLeave that to me. ﬁYes, yes! But you know, dearie, that I can do nothing with anyone looking on. I™ll not be long if you leave me. ﬁI will go out while you brew,ﬂ replied the fay, and she went out, flying along the shore and singing to the waters in her voice like a young bird™s. Suddenly the witch signalled, hallooing and roaring, and the fay hastened into the hut. The heat was intense, and the whole place full of what looked like blood-red fumes. The witch seized her mistress by the hands and laid her upon the floor. Never ceasing to roar and scream, slowly she scooped from the bowl and slowly sprinkled its contents over head, face, hands and ankles, and with a bundle of crystal sticks gently beat the prostrate form. The crimson smoke became thicker and thicker, darker, and at last quite black. The hag™s eyes burned like lamps amidst the smoke. She ceased roaring and tapping and laid the golden sticks in the bowl. Instantly the fire went out, the heat died, the smoke thinned and vanished. The hag lit a great taper. And there was seen a new figure upon the floor, and in the bowl were no sticks, nothing but a little grey powder. The hag sat quiet, cross-legged, beside it. It was a graceful, incorrigible, very short frock, with high boots and bright hair under a military-looking little fur cap a la mode, 1915, and skin tinted like the bloom of orchards in spring. It was a coat, despised since 1815, but now seeming as fascinating as ever, with its bands of fur at the throat, wrists and hem. It was a declaration that Art is never out of the period. The old woman waited, chanting low, and not taking her eyes from her work, until slowly opened the most beautified eyes in the world. The hag gasped with joy and rose and fetched a cup containing water, which she held anxiously to the cherry lips of the new creature. ﬁDrink my beautiful,ﬂ she crooned, with an inimitable gesture of mingled worship and pride. Begin your work.ﬂ I™ll be very quick !ﬂ The new figure lay inanimate. Alice MORNING. 