The Imperviousness of Literature to War. By Ernest A. Boyd. THERE has been much speculation during the past year as to the effect of the European War upon literature. In the main, inquiry has taken two forms. It has either been directed towards ascertaining the reactions of the reading public during war-time, or it has dwelt upon the losses sustained by letters through the death of young writers while on active service. Almost all the belligerent nations have had to record promising young talents cut off prematurely from the realisation of their highest development. Naturally there is, in every such case, a tendency to allow patriotic affection to colour one™s estimate of the actual or potential loss. The charitableness of the traditional obituary is increased when recollections of devotion to duty, or of military prowess, come to modify the already less critical attitude with which a recently deceased contemporary is viewed. Such instances as that of Charles Peguy, one of the most original personalities in modern French literature, suggest that too much importance must not be attached to these expressions of regret. During his life Peguy was heartily detested and abused by the majority of French critics, his work could find publication only in ﬁLes Cahiers de la Quinzaine,ﬂ an eclectic review, edited by himself. Curiously enough, the most noteworthy of the other young French writers killed at the front also published their work in Peguy,s ﬁCahiers. ﬂ Nevertheless, the loss of these comparatively neglected and despised authors is now declared irreparable! Peguy, in particular, has been the recipient of much posthumous honour-even to the extent of the re-edition of his works, although it is doubtful if posterity will find much intellectual or artistic substance in his ponderous and verbose neo-Catholicism. His enormous poems of from six thousand to eight thousand lines will probably be more easily forgotten than his great services as an editor. In that capacity he will be remembered because of his publication of almost all that Romain Rolland has written. Leaving aside the purely commercial interaction of war upon literature, we may attempt to consider the question from a general point of view. Reference to the case of Charles Peguy, has been made in order to illustrate the tendency to exaggerate the merits of the man of Ietters turned warrior. Nobody, of course, can positively deny or assert the potential losses literature has incurred. There are doubtless many brains shattered or weakened which would have enriched the intellectual treasure of European literature. But we can, with a certain security, estimate the extent to which we are losers by the death of writers who had already built up a considerable achievement. It will probably be admitted. in due season, that we have not, in those cases, been deprived of anything of the first importance. If we turn, then, to the general question of the literary aftermath of the present war we shall find that a somewhat similar situation presents itself. Just as exaggeration is the tendency noticeable in all judgments of writers killed in action, so there is over-emphasis in most conjectures as to the literature which will follow the cessation of hostilities. Here, again, the same allowance must be made for potentialities as in judging the possible achievement of those who have been cut off in their youth. It is neither more nor less justifiable to assume that every young poet who has left us but his first volume would have become famous, than to assume that every valuable talent which would have created the literature. of the next generation has been lost on the field of battle. In both cases the supposition is the same, namely, that the war has made an indelible mark upon the literature of the future. Inasmuch as this is nothing more than an affirmation based upon conjecture, it cannot be directly disproved. Enthusiasts have hinted that Rupert Brooke would have ranked with the greatest poets of England had his life been spared. At best, no reasons for, and many against, the probability may be deduced from such of his work as we possess. Expressions of conviction, formed under the stress of patriotic emotion, cannot be accepted as very accurate forecasts of what literature has in store for us. It is probable that sterile years will follow peace, especially in those countries whose physical resources have been heavily taxed. But that is merely a negative statement of the effect of the war upon literature. In order to arrive at some more affirmative conclusion, we must adopt the same method of deduction which enables us, in considering individual writers, to estimate what the abrupt termination of the work will mean for posterity. Conclusions as to the influence of the present war upon literature can be reasonably formulated only by reference to what has hitherto proved to be the response of letters to such crises in history. In other words, existing facts and experience are the only basis upon which to rest speculations as to the future. Within the space of a lifetime there have been a sufficient number of wars to furnish the necessary data. The danger of having to go too far away from modern conditions for analogies is, therefore, avoided. It may be objected that the Russo-Japanese or the Anglo-Boer wars were fought at such a distance from Russia and England that their repercussion was as remote as if the conflicts had occurred in the seventeenth or eighteenth centuries, when the main stream of civil life was hardly disturbed by the outbreak of war. To parallel the present circumstances a case must be found where invasion and devastation were at the very heart of the belligerents™ social and intellectual life. The Franco-Prussian War of 1870 answers perhaps even more exactly to that description than does the war of 1914, so far as France is concerned. Yet, what influence did that cataclysm have upon French literature? The young men who should have reflected all that the Franco-Prussian war had meant for France failed remarkably to live up to the theory of war™s ineluctable imprint upon literature. They were Daudet, Maupassant, A. France, Bourget, Loti and Zola, among the novelists ; Richepin, Coppee, de Heredia, Verlaine, Mallarme, among the poets. Maupassant, it is true, found in the war the incident of one of his most remarkable stories, Zola™s ﬁDebacleﬂ is an extraordinary prose epic of the great disaster. But it is noteworthy that the book appeared as a mere episode, towards the end of the Kougon-Macquart series, in a history of the Second Empire. It is evident that his interest was in the social conditions of France prior to the war, not in the events or result of the war itself. The generation which achieved fame after 1870 might have lived in the antipodes for all the interest shown by their work in that great war. The, novelists were, for the most part, impersonal, dispassionate realists, whose principal concern was to carry on the tradition of Flaubert, who wrote during and after the war in the same imperturbable manner as before it. The turning of a phrase remained his constant preoccupation. His young disciples failed no less signally to emulate him in this than they failed to take any cognisance of the national and international upheaval which preceded the establishment of the Third Republic. Neither Bismarck nor Louise Michel left any greater impression upon the realistic novel than the humblest of Maupassant™s Norman peasants. The war and the Commune supplied the purveyors of popular fiction with considerable material, the great novelists found only matter for an occasional short story. With the exception of ﬁBoule de Suifﬂ and ﬁLa Debacle,ﬂ there is nothing of importance in the French literature of the period to indicate the recent visitation of war. Outside the Naturalistic school the echo of Sedan is even fainter. In 1873 Anatole France made his debut with ﬁBoemes Dores," and as early as 1876 ﬁLes Noces Corinthiennesﬂ revealed the talent of the future author of ﬁSur la Pierre Blanche,ﬂ and ﬁLe Jardin d™Epicure.ﬂ During his early years France was a respectable young Parnassian, writing correct and somewhat frigid verse, deeply absorbed in literature, and apparently oblivious of the loss of Alsace-Lorraine. When he attracted the favourable attention of the Academy it was not by means of any poignant reflection of the Franco-Prussian tragedy, but by that simple idyll ﬁ Le Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard. ﬂ Paul Bourget, too, had not yet put on the motley garment of nationalist- clerical royalism-but was writing those admirable studies of contemporary psychology, both in the novel and essay form, which are still the best part of his work- Pierre Loti reveaIed himself at once as the prose poet of the Orient and of the seafaring life, and can no more be regarded as moulded by the influences of the war than can either of the writers just mentioned. Contrary to the popular belief that contact with an enemy results in an exchange of ideas, there is little trace of the action of German thought upon France in the years following 1870. The foreign influences which coloured French literature during the ™eighties were Russian, Scandinavian, and English. Neither Hauptmann nor Nietzsche was translated before 1893, so that the clash with Prussia would seem to have made no impression, moral or intellectual, upon those Frenchmen who were writing immediately after the event. The poets proved as unsusceptible as the prose- writers. Verlaine suggested the age of Villon rather than the period following a national tragedy. In 1875 Mallarme found no more urgent impulse to literature than the translations of Edgar AlIan Poe, which was succeeded the next year by ﬁL™Apres midi d™un Faune,ﬂ clearly indicating how remote were the poet™s preoccupations from any thought of international affairs. Moreover, he was to forecast the direction in which the younger generation found its expression, for he was at once hailed as the father of their movement by the Symbolists. The latter were not only unmoved by the war, which occurred when most of them were still very young, but they took pains at the outset to announce their contempt for the political situation thereby created. In the chief Symbolist review, the ﬁMercure de France,ﬂ an early article, which cost Remy de Gourmont his position in the ﬁBibliotheque Nationale,ﬂ voiced the general attitude of his contemporaries towards the Franco-German problem. De Gourmont explained, with elaborate precision, why he would not give his little finger to recover the lost provinces, because the said finger was more usefully employed in knocking the ash off the author™s cigarette ! The Symbolists guided the stream of French literature during the late ™eighties and right through the eighteen-nineties, without a single care for anything but the beauty of words and rhythms. They have dominated the literary scene since the collapse of the Naturalist school, they have given France some of her most delicate poets and thinkers, but they have remained absolutely free from any suggestion of the humiliation of Sedan. In fine, if we wish to ascertain the effect of war upon French literature, we are more apt to find what we seek in the literature just preceding the present than in that which succeeded the previous war. Within the past ten or fifteen years a noticeable change of tone has been apparent in the work of the younger writers. Maurice Barres has been recognised as the leader of this new generation, although he does not belong to it. His early work, the three volumes of the series entitled ﬁLe Culte du Moiﬂ (1888-1891), and ﬁL™Ennemi des Loisﬂ (1893), are typical of the period in which they were conceived. It was much later that the author discovered himself to be un professeur d™energie, a perfervid patriot, eternally brooding over Alsace-Lorraine, and a champion of intensively cultivated nationalism. His original phase was that of the sceptical disciple of Renan, with a tendency, like that of Anatole France, towards intellectual revolutionism, and the most convincing part of his work belongs to that period. strenuous patriotism, however, the cult of physical strength and a renaissance of combativeness, induced by the contemplation of les Marches de l™Est, are the dominant traits of the new literature, at the head of which Barres found himself. The advent of Bergson with a fashionable philosophy of anti-intellectualism was just what was required to sever the link between the older and younger generations. Rapidly a number of writers sprang into notice whose common characteristic was their Barresisme-a word which covers a multitude of qualities and defects. These men no longer tolerated the artistic aloofness of their predecessors, they were deeply engaged in sport, politics and religion, and their arrival was soon signalled by the appearance of numerous studies of the new tendencies for which they stood : ﬁThe Re-awakening of French Soul, ﬂ ﬁThe Renascence of French Pride,ﬂ such was the key in which most of these works were pitched. They obviously announce the ideals of men of action, and their prophetic character needs no emphasis to-day. Under these auspices we learned to know the generation which went to the trenches in 1914. An examination of French literature during the quarter of a century after the Franco-Prussian war seems to show that the reaction of the man of letters to such stimuli is very slight. Minor writers find in war a field for the exploitation of their talents, but the creative mind appears to reject the influences of war and all its essentially destructive elements. Of the authors mentioned, those who actually took part in the campaign of 1870 show no greater sensitiveness to that great national experience than do those who did not serve in the army. In fact, the position is reversed : Richepin and Coppee have left no memory of the war at all comparable to some of the stories of Daudet and Maupassant. Verlaine played an active part in the rising of the commune, yet ﬁRomances sans Parolesﬂ and ﬁ Sagesse,™™ the works which he published afterwards, breathe a spirit utterly remote from the troublous times which had preceded them. It is not until two literary generations have come into their own that the passage of war makes itself felt. The third generation of French writers since 1870 has shown itself far more sensitive to the events of that time than did those more immediately in contact with the reality. When the possibility or menace of approaching conflict is sensed, then literature is coloured by the thought of war. Before the crisis is reached the mutual exasperation of the prospective combatants fires the blood and the imagination to the point where past history is invested with actuality and the beauty of heroism. Those who have just come through the nightmare of war cannot™ view its developments with such artistic detachment. They hasten to escape from everything recalling their recent experiences. It is possible, therefore, to argue that the present war will leave no deeper mark upon the creative literature of the next two or three decades than did the wars of the past. Now, when. our minds are haunted by the tragedy and horror of militarism, we are inclined to under-estimate the fortunate imperviousness of literature to war. The proverbial superiority of the pen over the sword is capable of a wider interpretation than that generally accorded to it. Wars are destructive only of what is physical, the spiritual entity of a nation cannot be obliterated by the greatest armaments. The domain of the intellect is as impregnable to the assaults of 42 c.m. guns and poisonous gasses to-day as it was to the burnings and torturings of the Middle Ages. The present war, like its predecessors, can affect literature only so indirectly as to deprive it of any claim to having done so. In so far as social reorganisation follows the declaration of peace literature will reflect the transformation. But the national genius of a people imposes definite lines along which such evolution may take place. Changes imposed arbitrarily from without rarely become absorbed into the body politic. As national literature is the expression of a nation™s genius the new literature will have to be true to itself and its origins. 