Man and Manners
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
Monday.--Really the boy has so many manners he
doesn’t know what to do. If only he could see the
difference between manner and manners. Though, indeed,
it’s so subtle it almost defies definition. I only know
that the boy may run a mile to pick up my glove; he
will only annoy me with the way he hands it to me. His
clothes may fit him; he will never fit them. He may
ride like a Centaur; he will look like a butcher’s boy.
He may bring me red roses, they become cauliflowers in
his hands. The fact is, no amount of manners will
ever produce manner. Now Jim never looks ridiculous,
no matter how ridiculous the thing is that he’s doing.
I’ve seen him drop all the conventional bricks-at least
it was best Worcester in the case of my teapot-but
how could anyone be vexed with a man who spills
china and tea in the manner born ! In a glance he
tells me that of course he is awfully sorry, and I shall
have another tea-set to-morrow, but really he and it did
look so funny it was worth doing, wasn’t it? In a
glance-and the boy would have stammered and blushed
himself into a scarlet fever. Yes, that’s just the
difference. Manner is inarticulate. Bad manners are
noisy. I shall invent a new proverb; Good manners
should be seen and not heard.
Tuesday.--I’m always complaining about men’s
manners; but really ! that woman in the ’bus this afternoon!
Fancy refusing to sit down when a man takes
the trouble to stand up for you. And what a way to
refuse. “Thank you, I’m quite as capable of standing
as you are.’’ If that man has more
sensitiveness than sense, he will never run the same
risk again. He will sit on, calling himself a cad, rather
than chance being made to look ridiculous in the eyes
of other passengers. As a matter of fact, he needn’t
worry ; public opinion will always be against the woman
in the case; the laugh against her, not him. But though
I see the difficulty, I’m afraid that until women learn
better manners men will have to choose between being
rude to the woman who deserves politeness, and being
rebuffed by the female who doesn’t. Of course, there
is the type of man who cannot ‘‘see why” he should
stand up for a woman. She competes with him in
industry; let her compete with him for a ’bus seat. The
question, however, is not one of sex, but of chivalry.
Shouldn’t a young man give up his seat to an old one,
or to an invalid, or to anyone, in fact, obviously less fit
to stand than himself? Should he hesitate in the case
of a cripple, even if the poor fellow had dared to get
a job in the same office as himself? Not that I need
compare women to cripples and invalids ! But when it
comes to capacity for standing, what on earth does it
matter whether a woman does think herself strong
enough for a man’s work? No, I’m afraid reasoned
rudeness is too often only an excuse for native boorishness.
The man who won’t give up his seat to a woman
“on principle” is either a fool or a hypocrite. Talking
of ’bus manners, I wonder whether that woman did the
kindest thing in standing up for the soldier. poor lad !
one eye had gone. But the easy way he swung himself
on to the ’bus showed that the sight of the other eye was
all right. I suppose we all were moved to stand up for
him just to show our respect. Hut, surely, to do so
was only to draw attention to his misfortune. Perhaps
he had been cheering himself with the thought that,
after all, he was still as good a man as any. And then
to be pitied in public ! I could
imagine the agony of his thought. Had it come to this?
Oh-h-h, Women !
And by a woman !
Wasn’t he to be able to stand in a ’bus like any other
man? Was he indeed an object of pity for life?
Perhaps the woman was right. I doubt it.
Wednesday.-I don’t wonder J. J. says he can’t
stand women. They can’t stand him. Why doesn’t
he see that his rudeness to them only gains him the
contempt of those he pretends to despise? I know it
is said that the ruder a man is to her the more a woman
likes him. I don’t believe it. The difficulty is to tell
whether a man is being intentionally rude, or simply
failing to be witty. Few women put up with unmistakable
rudeness. There is quite another solution to the
mystery of their particular interest in women-haters.
I remember when the rumour went round that Joan
couldn’t bear the other sex. Men were always on their
best behaviour with her. She told me she never knew
they could be so nice. Actually, I suppose, what they
were trying to do was to show her that men weren’t
such a bad lot after all. It wasn’t fair, they thought,
for her to be judging the majority by the exceptions she
had chanced to suffer from. Similarly, when women
exert themselves to charm the professing woman-hater,
they only want the credit and thrill of a conversion to
be theirs. A missionary expends more time and trouble
over a heathen than a Christian, which by no means
implies that he undervalues the latter. Rut suppose the
woman-hater will not be converted? And, indeed, he
might find the treatment so pleasant that he would
refuse to get well ! Will women continue their efforts
for ever? Not very encouraging for the average nice
men ! Poor lions, they will be left without any Christians!
No, surely women soon tire of being *‘played’’
by the professional woman-hater. Um. Do they?
Thursday.--Might have known the crowd was watching
an accident. Strange taste, elbowing your way
through a mob to watch a man or an animal suffer. The
more blood the merrier, I suppose, to those in the front
of the ring; but the greater proportion of the crowd
is there simply, I believe, because it loves a crowd.
Deprived of the curiosity inspired by the sight of a
crowd, the average person would probably pass a street
accident with a shudder. But as one of a crowd, his
personality is lost. Off it goes on a holiday! And
glad enough he is to be rid of the responsibility of it.
Now he can chatter and jostle and gape arboreally. So
much for mob-manners-for the infecting psychology
of the crowd. Oh, how society loves a crowd! It
won’t give one time to grow a personality. In fact it
hates to give you a chance to know yourself. How
often one hears the remark, “I can’t bear being alone !”
If you want to be alone you are odd ! If you say you
never go out in the evenings, you are rude or unkind !
Well, I only know that by preference I avoid those
who love company, and seek those who shun it. Is not
to be able to avoid a crowd a sign of culture? Which
brings me back to my point-the impertinence of
putting a finger into other people’s pies. It is really no
business of mine if a man has broken his leg, or a ’bus
its window. I cannot help in any way by stopping to
stare. My eyes are neither doctors nor glaziers. If a
policeman wants assistance he’ll whistle for it. “For
God’s sake, gentlemen, don’t look at a great man in
distress,” said Lord Coventry to the crowd pressing
round to gloat on a nobleman who had slipped and
fallen at a Court presentation. Those who line the
pavements to watch ambulances with wounded troops go
by, might remember his words with advantage. I have
discovered, however, a sufficient excuse for those who
gather at stations to welcome or wave farewell to
soldiers unknown to them personally. What is usually
only curiosity, here perhaps serves an excellent purpose.
Rather than suffer, and see their relations suffer in
public, most men prefer to “get over” their intimate
partings at home. An anonymous send-off, therefore,
does a valuable service. Who knows? Perhaps the
noise of the crowd may deaden personal sorrows. Let
us trust so, at least.
Friday.--Men are child-like too seldom. Women are
childish too often.