
Man and Manners
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
TuEsdaY.-The finest test of good manners is the
handling of money. Money is a magnifying-glass of
manners. Why it should be so is not easy to explain,
unless we suppose that Mammon is really the god of
this world. Its capacity for causing offence, however,
at least equals its power of giving pleasure. Meanness,
vanity, vulgarity, tyranny-oh, unnumbered petty
vices flourish in the mud-banks of money. In truth,
money is so significant that the way man behaves
with it is a sure index of his mind. It is as difficult to
give as to receive ; to receive as to give. How often the
giver feels robbed and the recipient humiliated by a gift
intended well on both sides. I am sure, in the case of
Fred’s loan, any feeling of gratitude I might have felt
towards him was entirely effaced by his spirit-breaking,
intolerable manner of making it. Women, I am afraid,
can be as offensive as men in relation to money. The
way, for example, some wives grumble in public over
the small size of the income their husbands earn is
amazing. They might remember, for one thing, that
it is as ill-bred to boast of poverty as to boast of wealth,
and to complain of it is really beggary. Men, on the
other hand, have more occasions for airing their money
manners. Most public paying is done by them. And
oh, the mischief they do in its name ! The paying of a
dinner bill, for instance. I have traced a broken
engagement to the bad manners displayed in the doing of
this simple duty. Money might be misery, the trouble
some men make of it. There is the man who pays a bill
in a groping, furtive way, counting out his money half
under the table, as if it were composed of pawn tickets.
There is the man who throws it out coin by coin, what
he calls “chucking it about,” I suppose. “That’s the
sort of fellow I am,” he seems to be saying. There is
the man who asks what the damage is, then airily
pooh-poohs the amount with a facetious “Oh, I think
we can manage that !” There is the man who squints
at the change through the smoke of his cigar, and with
turned head pushes back a piece at the waiter as much
as to say, “There you are. I don’t want to look at you.
Take it away, take it away.” There is the man who
blushes, looks confused, and fumbles in every pocket.
You wonder if he has miscalculated his income, and
feel guilty of over-eating. There is the affable man
who chatters to you about the price of each item; to
put you quite at your ease, I take it. There is the
species which thoroughly preens its bill with its pencil,
looking up to ask whether you had one roll or two.
There are actually men who carry-Joan broke off her
engagement with the Boy when she discovered he
carrieda purse. (She might have known he did, without
waiting to see proof of his penny-wisdom.) It takes a
great man to carry off a purse. There-if men only
knew how much a dinner might cost them, surely they
would hesitate before carelessly paying for it! Men
needn’t flatter themselves that a woman owes them any
thanks for giving her lunch and then embarrassing her
by their clownish methods of settling the bill. On the
contrary, her feeling of appreciation very rightly turns
to one of absolute loathing ! “Oh, I’m not going to
put myself out for a woman,” I’ve heard a man say.
“If she doesn’t like the way I do things, she can jolly
well lump it.” But, here again, the question is not one
of sex. Whoever the person-inferior, superior, woman
or man-it’s surely the duty of a host not to make his
guest feel uncomfortable. What is the stumbling-block,
anyhow? Where is the difficulty in paying a bill with
ease and good manners? Must naturalness be such a
rare art?
Thursday.-How strange are the manners of women
to women! This afternoon, just because that man in
the tube looked at Joan as she passed, all the women
sitting opposite began staring across at her. She underwent
the minutest inspection. The style of her hat,
the cut of her coat, the shape of her boots-all the
details of her appearance were critically summed up, and
certainly into a case against her. How dared she
attract the man? They hadn’t. What on earth could
lie see in the girl? What difference between her and
them had drawn his glance? Before Joan came in I
don’t suppose any one of the women had particularly
coveted his attention. But with Joan had entered the
spirit of competition. She had stirred the embers of
rivalry that are even readier to flare up between women
than between men. It is an amusing study in psychology
to observe the tactics of women as they pass you in
the street. First there is an eye-shot at the man you
chance to be walking with; he is soon placed. But the
heavy artillery of their glance is directed at you. Round
you it licks like a tongue of flame! “Gracious! I’d
suit him better than you,” it seems to say. This rivalry
between women furnishes the ground of many a silent
but sanguinary Amazonian skirmish. I shall never
forget Joan‘s behaviour last year. She hadn’t said a civil
word to the Boy till Violet, who was really in love with
him, came to stay in the house. Then it simply came
to this ; Joan didn’t want the Boy herself, but she wasn’t
going to let anyone else have him ! Poor Violet! If
the Boy ventured a word with her, Joan flung looks at
him that might have been missiles, they hurt Violet
so much. If she wore a new frock- Well, I wonder
it wasn’t shrivelled up in the fire of Joan’s stare. No;
because a woman suddenly begins flirting with him, it
certainly doesn’t follow that a man can take the credit
to himself. As like as not there is simply another
woman in the case!
Friday.-Glad now I wasn’t too annoyed with the
Boy for trying to kiss me. Might otherwise have
missed his excuse, which was a revelation to me. “Why
did you invite me to tea if you didn’t want me to kiss
you?” he asked. Seems that he wasn’t specially
anxious, but thought it expected of him! Told me
how one woman he had been in the habit of going to see
had warned him that she couldn’t. bear men who flirted.
Suddenly she had turned on him, abusing him for not
making love to her. “A real man would have kissed
me the first time he saw me,” she had declared. No
wonder the Boy was taking no risks with me! On the
other hand, I suggested, wasn’t it better to chance
having his own dignity hurt than certainly to offend a
proper-minded woman? “Well, after all,” he answered,
“what is a man to do if he doesn’t flirt with a woman?
She doesn’t expect him to waste his time talking to her,
does she?” Oh dear, other women are going to Fay
for that experience of the Boy’s! Really, though, I
think the man is a fool who cannot appreciate what he
gains by talking to women without flirtation, Because
the result of an influence is not at once obvious, is it
right to have no faith in it5 power? Though no one,
perhaps, can measure its immediate service, women’s
company has the same order of effect on men as music
and poetry and pictures. It makes the mind supple.
A man’s mind will never be “finished” without the little
talents of sensibility which only acquaintance with
women will give him. Men deal in things and ideas:
women, in persons. Women’s gossip is the borax
which lowers the meltingpoint of men’s thoughts. It
supplies the leavening element without which the mind
of the intellectual man develops in chunks instead of in
proper proportion. Whether things should be subordinate
to persons, or persons to things, is not, I suppose,
a matter for me to decide; but that they should mix is
bound to be right. Not to see things in relation to
persons is not to see things whole. And, of‘ course,
vice versa. I could swear that a year of women’s
companwy ould do more for J. J.’sw ork than all the learning
he continues to acquire. As it is, men are beginning
to find his books unreadable. His style is stiff and
ponderous. It lacks finesse and subtlety. His ideas
have outgrown their clothes-if ever they had any ! His
views are narrowing ; his perspective is closing. And
as from the style of a man’s work one can very nearly
estimate the extent of his acquaintance with women, so,
from the manner of his work can one usually guess what
the man’s social manners are like. I know men think
that only women are attracted by pleasant manners.
How near-sighted ! Ease and elegance are as necessary
to the scholar, for instance, as books. Women’s
companyr ipens those manners which are an acquisition to
a man not only in his dealings with other women, but
in his deaIings with mer,, and even, I would say, with
ideas. Why, I have met men who with all their
bookishness have not the ability to carry on an ordinary
conversation. Indeed, from the grimacing way the
Boy opens the door for me I would lay a wager that he
is a pert, uncouth writer. To know how to talk agreeably
to a woman is to know how to put and take an
argument clearly. Women fashion a man; (am I quoting
Lord Chesterfield?) and a knowledge of women is
necessary to that knowledge of the world without which
the biggest brain becomes a bee in a bonnet.
