Feminine Fables.
The Style of the Peri.
ONE rosy dawn, when the sun was just up, there stood
at the foot of the wide shining wonderful slopes which
lead up to the lower (or as we mortals call it, the
Persian) paradise, the youngest and most beautiful of ill
the Peris.
She had a spirited look in her eyes as she regarded
the vast interminable walls and battlements of her
ancestral home. She was neither short nor tall, and
she had large shining eyes. Her waist, under the
unearthly veils which enveloped her, was very slender,
her hips were large, and her bust full. As she stood,
twisting her body impatiently, the golden chains and
rings on her wrists and ankles jingled with every
movement .
Suddenly, she cried out, with an exclamation of
bewilderment which sounded like the lament of a young
bird lost. And continuing this sound she spread her
green wings and flew up the hillside. Half way up, she
alighted again, and stood among the flowers, humming
with bees and bright-winged insects, and looked at the
paradise as if afraid to go any nearer. She drew a
black veil over her face and looked through it in the
direction of the sun, and then flew swiftly away. All
around her was the sound of the singing of birds and
the noise of the water-fowl dipping in the little lakes of
the hills. Animals of all kinds were up and about in
the groves and open meadows, lions, tigers, and herds
of deer ; and serpents and monkeys hung from the trees
weighted with golden, red and purple fruit, and with
nuts. Below, far below, swung the earth in blue space.
The beautiful Peri looked around her with anger
and despair. Especially, she regarded the sun with
furious aversion, guarding her face with the veil.
“It cannot be true,” she exclaimed-“but it is true.
I ani too late to get in !”
‘‘Me-late !” she went on. “Me-late !” She flew
on right up to the walls. There was the formidable
bronze portal which went up with the walls out of
sight-fast shut! It was, as she knew, eleven cubits
thick. Though she were to knock, no faintest echo
might penetrate to those within; nor would they have
taken any notice even if they could have heard.
For it is the rule of the lower paradise that any Peri
who fails to return before daybreak from her nocturnal
wanderings over the earth, where her business is to
tempt and pester us mortals, shall remain outside the
gate for the whole day, walking around and around a
glass column which distorts what it reflects, and which
is called the column, or style, of repentance. The
Fallen Angels, being envious and jealous of men, regard
a Peri who returns late as one having found the society
of mortals sweet; €or they argue that as none would
remain voluntarily where she was not enjoying herself
more than is possible in the mere exercise of tempting
and pestering people to their ruin-the late Peri must
have been enjoying herself in some other way.
It is a foolish enough punishment this, and one
which punishes the jealous and amorous Fallen Angels
quite as much as the lovely Peri. But, if we consider,
mortals do much the same thing with their too fascinating
dames who fail to come home. And men are much
more ferocious in their wrath and jealousy than the
Fallen Angels. For whereas they receive the Peri
after her humiliation of being found out, as though
nothing had happened, or, at least, would never happen
again, men banish for ever their fair and frail ones, and
only stop short of publicly demanding that the whole
world shall follow their example in treating them like
the lepers of the Middle Ages. Men are no worse than
the Fallen Angels in one respect. Men only punish
what is found out. Men, no more than they, can always
keep an eye on their beautiful companions. But men,
also, consider that a person found out must be more
guilty than one who remains undetected. In fact, just
like the devil, men punish for being found out.
So the youngest and most beautiful of all the Peris
was found out at last. She was clearly guilty. There
was no possible case for even the cleverest of defences.
The infallible gate, which shut with the rising of the
sun, was shut!
She regarded the gate and the distorting column
beside which she was to pass the day. “Me !” she
exclaimed again, with her great eyes full of fire. Then
she said to herself, “Was it worth it?” And she
answered herself, “Yes, it was !” She went on, angrily
--’‘Me to sit in solitude a whole day like any common
Peri. Me-the favourite ! I shall not walk in solitude
around this idiotic style. I shall not spend the day in
penitence. I am not penitent. What shall I do?”
She reflected on what must be passing within the
paradise. “The same old thing !” cried the youngest
of the Peris-“The same dances and dulcimers and
sackbuts and sherbet, The same jealous, conceited
Houris. The same oId veils and earrings. The same
old Fallen Angels boasting about their past glory. Let
them punish whom they may. For me-no punishment!
Now, must she not have had some reason for this
decision stronger than mere dread of a day’s solitude?
If I were to swear by my fathers’ beards that she had
not-who would believe me? And yet, how many a
mortal woman has kicked her bonnet over the mill for
no reason more guilty than pride which she could not
bear to be insulted !
Even if the Peri had another reason, she had super-
I shall fly back to the earth and stay there.”
reasoned it away while flying down to the earth, for
she arrived hither feeling a thoroughly injured person,
insupportably punished for a mere oversight as to
what o’clock it was. What had made her late was all
forgotten and buried away, and as there was no one
else present to say exactly what it was, and as she did
not remind herself, she went gaily down the blue space
feeling very good friends with herself, determined to
have a good time, and very glad to be rid of the awful
boredom of the paradise.
ALICE MORNING