 Man and Manners,
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
MONDAY.-I hate the way women have of calling men by
their surnames-neat. No diluting “Mr.” Just plain
Brown, Smith, Jones. Is
it to flaunt their familiarity with a man? Do they
mistake it for a display of that sort of camaraderie which,
of course, doesn’t exist between the two sexes? Is it,
oh dear ! another assertion of women’s equalityanother
example of how they would convert their “rights”
into wrongs? And the result? “Temple really is
frightfully rude, ” Joan complained yesterday. “Did
you see him throw the matches to me last night?” Well,
why not? He would have thrown them across to a
man, and surely the man-to-man way Joan was calling
him “Temple” was an invitation to be treated in a
man-to-man manner. “But, if you’ve never been asked
to use his Christian name, what can you call a man
you’ve known for ages and ages?” Really, anyone
would think propriety was a breach of friendliness.
Besides, as in this case of Joan’s, I have noticed that the
men whom women call by surname are usually men
they don‘t know very well (but wish to appear to know) ;
if they did they would probably have discovered how
cheaply, for this very reason, they are held by the men
in the case. Surnames may be all very well for pianos,
but women may take my word that here, as always,
social conventions are the best safeguard of social
decorum : they are the navigation rules that make sociality
permanently possible. I fear I must quarrel again with
those men and women who casually employ Christian
or nickname when talking about each other to third
parties. The consequence is that one day you find yourself
annoyingly addressed as “Carrots” or “Mary” or
what-not, by someone you scarcely know, but who,
perhaps excusably, has assumed that since your friend
thus refers to you in public, you like everyone to do so.
Women have no monopoly of this branch of bad manners.
Men themselves offer no model in their way of
addressing each other. Masculine society that includes
the person who, an hour or two after introduction, or
on the strength of a purely professional acquaintance,
addresses and refers to a man (generally his superior)
by surname alone, has nothing exemplary to teach
women. And the sins of the fathers are copied by their
children. ’To hear that precious Boy thus surnominally
addressing and referring to his best friend-a man
double his age and of more parts and intelligence than
the Boy has sufficient of either to recognise!
Pachydermatpouupsp y! Perhaps he wouldn’t do it if he
knew how often he misunderstands this very same man !
But doubtless the habit is infectious, and the Boy may
have caught the disease from those CLEV-er young
women and men whose false perceptions of values make
every dubious loophole for instinct appear desirable.
(And then they say they are following Nature !) Or,
again, the Boy may have been encouraged by reading
that halfpenny-mannered type of journal which prides
itself on its dashing way of omitting “Mr.” when
referring to men whom it professes to delight to honour.
See how familiar we are ! Brown-everything to youis
nothing to us ! D’ye remember Teddy? For two
pins we’d call this man Georgie ! See that Mary “blew
into” the concert yesterday? Ugh ! I would suppress
an Editor for less ! Even in books the public man runs
the risk of being similarly insulted, in order, I suppose,
that the writer may be credited with the superior
acquaintance of one whom he should only approach on
bended knees, and whom certainly he will never knowfor
all his endeavours ! No wonder with such examples
even schoolboys think it infra dig-(I quote thein)-to
say “sir” when addressing anyone unblessed with the
right to correct them.
Wednesday.-Men are always complaining that
women don’t play the game with them. My compliments,
and I reciprocate their complaint with the
following true story. Once upon a time there were two
Why on earth do they do it?
men who kept grumbling and grumbling that their
wives-Heigho!-took up so much of their time they
couldn’t do any work. One fine morning the two wives
went away for a holiday. “This is good,” said their
husbands. “Now, indeed, we shall get on with our
work !” With these words the two men sat talking and
talking and drinking and drinking till far into the dawn.
“We will meet again to-morrow,” said the elder of the
two as they parted long after cockcrow. “With all my
heart,” cried his friend. “Then I will show you a
photo’ of that little bit of fluff I met when my wife-
Heigho !-took up so much of my time I couldn’t do
any work !” On the morrow the two friends lay sleeping
and sleeping till long past noon, but as soon as evening
came they began talking and talking and drinking
and drinking till far into the dawn. “To-morrow at the
same hour,” they agreed, as they parted long after
cock-crow. “Plenty of time to work when the wives
come marching home !” Little mannerisms, I suppose !
Thursday.-Well, never to dinner with him again.
Gift of caricature certainly not confined to artists. I’d
heard of those men who cannot order a dinner without
making a gallery exhibition of it, you, and themselves,
but I’d never been “you” till to-night. First, the
question of “Where shall we go?” took ten minutes at
least to settle. I wish a man would realise what an
insoluble problem that is to put to-a woman. How do
women know what money a man can stand to spend in
an evening? He deserves to be ruined for his bad taste
in leaving the decision to her. Why doesn’t he make
up his mind on the matter beforehand, and then, just
as a principle of courtesy, ask the woman if she knows
of any just cause or impediment, or if she has any better
suggestion to offer. But to return to my experience
with the man this evening. Having “voted for” and
settled us in the best-known public-house in Piccadilly,
of course he pooh-poohed the ordinary menu-waved
away every suggestion of it. The head waiter, manager,
every official on the premises, were sent for and
consulted over this literally beastly gorge of ours. I felt
as though I were being fitted for my food, the result of
these stage-effects being that E was sick of the dinner
before I had eaten it ! Nothing so effectually kills the
appetite as to have a fuss made about it. The wine
turned to medicine; the mayonnaise to malaise. Two
experiments in toast were rejected: the first dessert
was pronounced unfit for “our little Garden of Eden”
(wit for the waiters !); the first brew of coffee was
dismissed with a further ultimatum to Turkey ! (“Waiters
like that smart sort of joke,” my host told me !). Finally
-the choice of a cigar. No, not that box, nor that, nor
yet that one. Good God! hadn’t they learned by this
time that he takes an outsize in cigars? And when the
victim was found without flaw or blemish, he wore it
as if it were the V.C. he had won, slapping it every few
seconds with a punitive, plump fore-finger (which
reminded me of the Boy’s manner of maltreating even a
poor little thin cigarette !) Am I making mountains
out of menus? But such little tricks would cease to
be trifles if you had to live with the sort of man whose
pets they are. A man cannot exhibit so much of his
manner without exhibiting the same amount of his
nature. Such a way of behaving at dinner is, indeed,
a true expression of a man’s inner man! It is a form
of male vanity. Here is a means of impressing only a
woman with the Power of a MAN ! It is as
bad manners to be a menu-miser as to be a menu-crat.
Besides, what kind of power is it that gives any man the
right to embarrass a woman in public? It wasn’t his
fault? He doesn’t know any better? Well, if men in
general really can’t take hints, I suggest that for the
sake of their reputation the best men should form a
Society for the Prevention of Bad Manners to Women,
and appoint proctors. Women themselves might be
invited to lecture on how they don’t like being treatedwith
male illustrations ! Men don’t seem to realise
that the world is a man’s home, and there he should
take a pride in doing the honours suitably when women
are his guests. The chivalry of men to women in public
Power!
is the other side of the service of women to men in the
home proper. No hostess would dream of asking her
guests to prepare their own menu.
Saturday.-Mr. Arnold Bennett must have been
makingo bservations in Wells instead of in Life. “. . .
She would say openly, as it were, defiantly, that she
meant to be the mother of more children-lots more.”
(I quote from Mr. Bennett’s new book, “These
Twain.”) Now, who on earth but Mr. Wells has so
nasty a manner of referring to things pertaining to
children? Certainly no woman of any but the type of
which Mr. Wells, and now Mr. H. G. Bennett, seem
to have the monopoly. Then-“This baby business is
spiffing, only it puts you right off your game. As a
rule she manages to be hors de combat bang in the
middle of the season,” says Harry, who “very obviously
. . . belonged to a class superior to Hilda’s.” Very
obviously ? Personally, from his revolting manner of
speaking, I wouldn’t believe Harry belonged to a class
superior to any-even Mr. Wells-Bennett’s. But, after
all, what can you expect of a man with “hands
excitingldya rk with hair”? Though, while you were about
it, Mr. H. G. W. Bennett, why didn’t you say whether
the ape parted them in the centre or down the sideand,
if the latter, down which? Or perhaps they were
so excited they forgot to do their hair at all. Slovens!
Again-“the faults of Hilda were tremendous, essential,
and ineradicable . . . the life-bearing, foolish
Minnie . . . . what had happened to her was miraculous,
exquisite, and terrible. . . Edwin had a headache;
and it was a bilious headache . . . a feeble stomach
. . . chiefly a stomach. . .” Oh, for everyone’s sake,
leave wells alone, Mr. Bennett. Your manner of writing
is convicted out of your own description of Alicia :
“. . downright (even to a certain shamelessness) . .”
But there, I opened the book by chance and closed it
by design. One look enough for me. Are novels written
to please or disgust decent women-and men? 