The Seat of Virtue.
HER only friends at Court were the Empress, the
Duchess, the Dowager Duchess, the Margravine, and
the Servants:
“Her manners are good,” pronounced the Empress.
‘‘They are the manners of the poets. My grandfather
was a poet.’’
“She knows what is due to a Good Servant,” said
the Hall, where this title is praise, let middle-class
“helps” believe as they may.
The Duchess invited her to dinner with the Prince.
The Dowager Duchess consented to wear the lace cap
she had from the Queen of France, and to leave off her
knitted shawl.
The Margravine decided to let her into a secret.
And the Servants pushed people properly about.
So that in vain the riff-raff smirked and sulked and
said that she was an adventures, a sorceress, a person
with unheard-of jewels and a voice like the raven, the
Ruin of the Throne, and so on-all the cackle of the
ante-rooms.
She let Frau Muller carry her to the Dowager for ten
minutes before dinner. The Dowager was in form. “I
remember,” said the vivacious old creature, “ I remember-
I was very curious as a girl-how I learned what is
Passion. They told me in two words-‘It is something
which you want to do, but which you must not.’ I
never did, my dear. I was so lucky always, a victim to
yawning. ’ ’
The Cantatrice yawned in her famous voice with its
broken note, like the appeal of a young bird. Frau
Muller permitted herself to smile while the Dowager was
laughing. “Will that do?” asked the Cantatrice.
“I am not sure that you may be so successful as I,”
said the old lady, “but I am sure that you may be as
successful as you please. ”
They resumed the conversation after dinner in the
Dowager’s den, which was a little-alcove near the
Empress, who could hear or not as she wished. The Prince
brought his stiff back and blond hair to rejoice the
women. Von Basil, his Equerry, was with him. The
Prince admired the Dowager, who agreed with his
constructed ideal of a wife.
“Here is Van Basil in love again,” sneered the Prince.
“Not two days since he swore to have done with it for
ever. ’ ’
Von. Basil sat down beside the Margravine. “It is a
question of politeness this time,” he explained.
“Cordelipar omised me a kiss if I were still in love with her
on her twenty-fifth birthday, which is to-morrow. ”
“Is that it?” exclaimed the Prince, looking
contemptuously at the Margravine. “Madame, your sex is
full of tricks. Thank heaven I know them all.”
“Bad news for us,’‘ replied the Margravine smoothly.
“Not for all of you. One sort of woman has no
tricks and that is the sort I am going to marry.”
The Dowager saved herself from throwing her fan
at the Prince’s head by holding the sticks hard. “A
virtuous woman has no tricks,” she said, “and all
women are virtuous. ”
“They were in your day,” replied the sage Prince,
“but now”-he stopped.
The Dowager saved the Prince-“ Whatever you were
going to say cannot be meant for us,” she declared with
old-age dignity. The ungrateful Prince sat down sulkily
beside the Cantatrice. “Madame, what is your opinion
of your frail sex?”
“If you were to ask me my opinion of yours,”
rejoined the Cantatrice, sweetly.
‘ ‘Well ? ’ ’
“You are ridiculous ! You are a thousand times more
frail, as you call it, than we, and yet, as many women
have remarked, you cannot help boasting about this very
frailty as though it were a great triumph and a proof of
superiority. Is that ridiculous ? Then ridiculous you
are. ”
“Oh ! Anything more?”
“But you do not now need to be told that you are vain
and Fatuous and impertinent. ”
“Then why do you run after us?”
The Cantatrice smiled gently into his furious little
brown eyes. “May I be serious? Nature has blinded
us in some ways, but she drives us on irresistibly to
seek the one and only man for us, the man who shall
understand and value purity, fidelity and virtue. ”
“Is that a fact?” asked the staring Prince; and the
Dowager Duchess slightly yawned.
“Oh, if you are going to laugh at everything,”
returned the Cantatrice.
“I am not in the least laughing ! I am not a man to
laugh, by Jove, at the most solemn things in the world.
But few women talk like you.”
“You probably do not always encourage them as you
have encouraged us to be so sincere. Also, perhaps, you
do not take pains to see us except when we are on
show. ”
I only see women by night when they
are excited and frivolous. I shall in future see them in
the morning. Why have I never seen you in the morning?
You must be wonderful at breakfast.”
The Dowager Duchess cut in--“She must be a perfect
fairy in the morning”-while the rest began to talk and
nobody heard what the Cantatrice replied to the Prince.
She seemed a perfect fairy by night-if an ocean of
shining hair and eyes just touched with kohl and lovely,
manicured nails are fairylike, and if fairies ever wear a
dress of frills a la mode, and if fairies really sing little
folk-songs, as they are made to do in modern plays,
with a catch in the voice which brings tears to human
eyes. When the Empress commended, the Cantatrice
sang-
“That is true.
My son, my pretty lamb,
In the fields of my heart
You browse at your ease.
Crop, crop, pretty lamb,
Drink, drink, sweet-heart !
Your mother grows as thin as fay,
But play my pretty son, my gay.
In the fields of my heart
Browse as you please!
Play, my lamb, play!
“Oh, bah!” shouted the Prince, who had suddenly
changed in humour-“No nursery babble! Give us a
song, a song ! Women are all tricks !”
The Cantatrice looked at the Empress, and the
Empress nodded. So the Cantatrice sang. The Prince was
pleased. The Empress knitted serenely. The Court
went about humming--“My honour, lady, on your
honour. ” The Dowager Duchess embraced the
Cantatricyea, wned and retired. The Margravine asked the
Cantatrice to come and have supper in her apartment-
“just us two,” she said.
Over the caviare, or whatever it may have been, the
Margravine gave the Cantatrice the lead. “I love a
good supper. I hope you do. The Prince was intolerable."
The Cantatrice took it and said, “Wine,
chicken, meats, asparagus, fruits, sweets-I love them
all. Whom is the Prince to marry?”
“Oh,” returned the Margravine; “it is little Katarina,
who will never eat sweets for supper. The Prince
told me himself that Katarina does not care for sweets. ”
“If I married a Pasha,” said the Cantatrice, “I think
I should prefer him to have the temperament.”
A hardy knock sounded upon the door. The attendant
looked at the Margravine. “Don’t open, Bertha,”
remarked the Margravine tranquilly, and to the
Cantatrice-“We have only got to the second wine! I am
not nearly enough comforted for the insults of the evening.
Some women weep-I eat.” The other rejoined,
taking the champagne :-
“I am only in your noble world by a happy accident.
I adore your noble world. And, do you know, I
believe that all this racket at the door is as nobly flattering
to your guest as to you.”
The Margravine reddened : “How stupid a woman
can be !" she avowed, with enchanting candour-“but
I didn’t know that you had met my husband.”
“I have not ! Quits ! Open the door.”
It was not the Margravine’s husband. It was not the
Prince. It was not even Von Basil. It was Katarina.
“I want to see the Fairy,” she said, twitching her long
fair plaits.
The Cantatrice said to herself-“The Seat of Virtue !”
and aloud--“Your Serene Highness, what will become
of you if you eat sweets at supper?”
“None will know, ” replied the little Princess, seizing
the dish. She had scarcely munched fourteen when the
door was burst open.
“What are you doing here?” exclaimed the Prince,
stiffening his back. Katarina squealed.
“NOW we shall all be disgraced,” thought the
MargravinBe.u t the Prince merely boxed Katarina’s ears,
and sent her off howling to bed. Then he made a
magnificent figure; and Von Basil kissed the Margravine.
“It is twelve o’clock,” he said, “You are twentyfive,
and I love you.’’
The Cantatrice and the Prince finished the supper.
“So you really want to see me by daylight,” said the
Cantatrice, “by daylight, as I am ! But, my friend,
you have seen the little Katarina as she is, a secret
sweet-eater. You were not pleased. You horribly illtreated
the poor child.”
“My future wife must be above ridicule,” returned
the Prince. “A wife and mother munching sweetsabsurd,
injuriously absurd !”
“Flut !” retorted the Cantatrice. “You are eating
sweets yourself.”
“My angel,” returned the Prince trembling, “a man
is not a woman !”
“Zut !” retorted the Cantatrice. “I’m going ! Ha,
ha, ha ! I’m going-and not sorry to quit a Court
where moral superiority has to be maintained by us frail
women on pain of having our ears boxed. I am only a
poor frail woman myself. I shouldn’t like to have my
The Prince and Von Basil !
ears boxed. I demand to be as frail as I naturally am,
or, at least, as frail as man.”
At this moment the sun rose. “See me as you insist
I shall be,” commanded the Cantatrice, in an awful
tone. The Prince saw: saw in the sun-ray, a Dragon
with enormous, condemning eyes, a face yellow as
jealousy, hands like claws, and the wings and veils
of the historical Angel. “Oh, be frail !” he shrieked,
and dropped dead.
The Cantatrice flew out of the window.
ALICE MORNING.