In Between Whiles.
THE lovely, though exsufflicate, birds of the lower Paradise
fly high and swift as the eagle; but even an eagle
might hardly cover five hundred miles in a single night.
If one’s course happened to be across the ocean, one
would be very glad and fortunate to alight upon even
a lone rocky island where no one lived but a sour old
fisherman.
Far on the sea and flying for dear life came a weirder
bird than ever was seen by the saltest of old salts. Its
wings were made of green silk, its black comb was a
yard long and lay rigid along its back as though
soldered there, its eyes blazed like the soul of belladonna,
it had arms which ended in regulation claws, and legs
with little feet bound with golden anklets. The bird
was making for a speck of rock which showed afar off
amidst the grey waters.
“I shall never get there in time,” said the bird-“and
what will become of me? Whenever does become of
people who cannot swim and who fail into fathomless
depths?
She looked in fierce terror at the sun, a great dull,
red ball sinking down to the horizon behind the rock.
“Wait !” cried the bird. “I can’t,” replied the sun,
grinning, “you have still half a minute. Good luck !”
“Don’t you dare to hurry,” screamed the bird, ‘you
horrid monster, you old tell-tale, old spy, old spoilsport.
Oh ! I’m changing ! A-a-a-h ! safe !”
You would have thought this a vert uncomfortable
kind of safety-to find yourself upon a lone rock, with
nothing to eat, and with not one stitch on except your
golden hair ! But where could you have procured even
a night-gown if you had landed thus upon a desolate
island? Your sense of decency would not in the least
have helped you-which seems to show that certain
human sentiments partake the nature of the impuissant
minds which invented them.
The bird, no longer a bird, but a beautiful lady,
lifted her eyebrows and lowered them again upon the
solution of her problem. It was a little old, dirty man
in a scanty old, dirty jersey, but what was more, a large
pair of trousers all doubled over at the waist and belted
in. He came unsuspecting, saw, and apparently was
conquered. Anyway, he flung himself to his knees,
gasped, goggled, held out his arms, sighed-did everything
which an old beau could do to prove that he was
impressed, and did it with a naturalness, an abandon
to arouse envy in the average frigid heart of sixty-five.
But the lady was a modern and was not deceived.
“DO not be alarmed,” she said, soothingly. “My
intentions are strictly honourable. Poor old man, poor
old manny-manny ! Did it think I was going- to shut
it up in a nasty gilded palace and drug it and sell it to
an Eastern Queen? There, there !” She rose and
took a pace forward ever so gently so as to reassure
him.
“Goodness, ’ ’ exclaimed the lady, impatiently. “Have
you not the Law on your side? You are protected all
ends down. If I merely smile at you, a couple of fullypaid
female detectives of charity and virtues will seize
me; and on the mere suspicion of trying to disturb your
moral peace, my poor little man, I shall be hunted
down for life.
Oh dear, how tiresome is this world !”
But he yelled for help.
There, you see how safe you are.”
“Then you are not a Witch?” asked the old man,
cunningly, and rising from his knees.
“A what?” the lady was beginning, when she
suddenlyto ok the idea. “Slave !” she thundered-“Back
to your knees. Now give
me your trousers !” They were off in a tick, arid the
lady promptly hung them around her. “Home!” she
exclaimed. The old man turned round and trotted off
along the beach, the lady following.
“Dog !” she exclaimed, on looking within the hut,
which her exclamation may describe. She seized an old
sail from a pile of nets and things, doffed the trousers,
and draped the sail around her mortal form. The old
fisherman looked at her slantwise, suspiciously, almost
challengingly, and put on his trousers. “I am
hungry,” said the lady, “cook some of those herrings.”
Again, the fisherman looked at her slantwise, but he
cooked the herrings. “HOW far is it from here to the
mainland?’’ asked the lady.
“Er?” returned the fisherman-“Er? A thousand
leagues. ”
“Rot !” exclaimed the lady. She was about to rise
when the fisherman slipped a noose aver her arms and
round her knees-and there she was roped and at his
mercy. “You ain’t no Witch,” yelled the fisherman,
dancing; “you’re a Spy, you are. You’re a ornary
female spy. Wants to know where our Navy is, do
yer? I’ll denounce yer! Comes here tempting a
honest man, bullies and perverts him, puts on his togs
with yer airs and graces, and makes him cook yer fish?
You ain’t going ter eat none, you ain’t. You’re goin’
to be his humble slave and servant all the days of your
life-or I’ll denounce yer !”
“Is it possible,” asked the lady, “is it possible that a
rusty old fellow like you can aspire to my hand?’’
“If you was any good you wouldn’t be running about
in this ondecent way,” returned the fisherman. “I
knows the world well enough for that !”
“But it is merely because I have been wrecked and
haven’t any money,” said the lady. “How dreadful it
is to fall into misfortune in this world. Here am I,
wrecked and beggared, bound and enslaved. Suppose
I had behaved nicely to you, old man, would you have
continued to worship me?”
“I’d have eat the herrings after you cooked ’em and
I’d have given you one,” replied the fisherman. “I’d
have give you half my bed, ’stead o’ which you’ll sleep
on the floor. I’ll tame yer ! To-morrow, if yer
behaves yerself, I’ll let yer sleep in my bed ; if yer doesn’t
behave, I’ll larrup yer !”
You will catch
the fish. I shall cook them. If I behave myself I shall
sleep in your bed, if I don’t you’ll larrup me. Thus are
things divinely dispensed. ”
The fisherman said-“Werry natural, seein’ as man
is man and woman is woman.”
“But what, then, is a man’s life?”
“Catch fish an’ eat ’em, catch fish an’ eat ’em, catch
fish an’ eat ’em !’
“And a woman’s is cook fish an’ eat ’em, cook fish an’
eat ’em. Some day when I meet another fisherman, I
shall ask him if he does not think he might arrange
something more amusing between whiles than larruping
and being larruped.”
“None o’ that !” shouted the old man, “you’re
mine ! If I don’t pertect yer, yer know, another chap ‘ll
larrup yer. I seen one get it the night afore last over
in the town.” “Ah !” thought the lady, “so the mainland
is no more than a boat’s pull !” Aloud, she said
-“Well, since a woman must be protected by some
man for fear of the others, I prefer you, for you are a
very strong man, and, besides, you must have a lot of
experience. ’ ’
“Experience ! I knows my way about all right.’’
“You have had some great fights?”
“’I’ve walloped the town, I have.”
“And you must have seen some wonderful sights
and done deeds of bravery on this lone island where
Down ! Up! Down ! Up !
The lady said-“This is really life.
the rocks are so sharp and high.
many lives ?”
fifty feet long.’’
Wave you saved
“Many! ’Undreds! And once I caught a shark,
“No !’’
“NO? Yus! And I seen a sea-serpent.’’
“No? Yus! And a gull wiv a woman’s ’ed. I
“No? Yus !”
“Wonderful !
“No !’’
eat it. ”
“No !’’
Well, I shall certainly never look at
any other fisherman. You must be a great man. If
you like, I’ll kiss you.”
“So you shall.
He spake. The noose was loosened. The lady
sprang up, clutched a cutlass and dared him to come on.
“Oh you wiper !” exclaimed the fisherman. .
“Larrup for larrup,” returned the lady-“Your way
is a noose and a stick; mine is flattery and any handy
weapon. Now, as I shalI have to stop here until
sunrise, let us consider how we may pass the time between
whiles agreeably. You are a very sensible man and
you won’t expect me to put down my cutlass, considering
that you are so exceedingly strong and have
walloped everybody. You-” Amiable the lady; but,
really, how to pass the time with both sleep and love
out of the question? “You-” One can keep a conversation
interestingly hanging quite a while if the other
person is expecting to hear something about himself.
“You-you might teach me a lot about fish, if I
stayed . ’ ’
The fisherman hunched and said, “I knows all the
fish what’s in the sea.”
“And the sky, so as to know what weather is about?”
“I likes to see the North Star come up fair o’ nights,
“And the things which grow on the island?’’
The fisherman reflected-“Ye can grow taties or
cabbages, but yer can’t grow onions.’’
“And I expect you know a lot about the nature of
men and women, and the world?” The fisherman
stroked his beard, while his mouth opened and his eyes
turned up-“Oh,” he replied, at last, slowly,
"everything’lsik e everything else, and people’s the same once
you know ’em.”
Thought the lady-“ Flammarion, Linnaeus and
Locke, monomaniacs, were each only happier than this
man in having a single mania, a larger audience, and
influence.” Aloud, she said-“Don’t you ever get
puzzled as to why you are alive?”
“Me? Nao. I knowed a man once what said he
wondered why he was born. I ain’t for wondering. I
believes in devils and witches.” Here he looked on a
sudden so startled and ugly that the lady lifted the
cutlass-only just in time, for he sprang a step forward
with a thick stick in his hand. She did not rise but
pushed her stool sideways until it came against the wall
beside the door; while the fisherman stepped back.
“Now we have got to the real interest of between
whiles,” remarked the lady-“Each of us at heart has,
above all else, desire to obtain power over the other.”
The fisherman answered never a word. And thus they
sat while the stars went down the heavens, and
disappeareodn, e by one.
The darkest hour came and passed. The lady rose.
and opened the door with her left hand. She half
closed it upon herself outside and threw the cutlass into
the middle of the room. The fisherman seized it, yelled
and rushed out. The first beam of dawn lay upon the
island. He looked around. No one was there.
“I sees yer, I’ll ‘ave yer,” he shouted. He ran all’
about. He stood still. The sweat broke all over him.
He seized his boat, flung in his nets and things, and
rowed away, howling with fright and fury. And this
is why no one lives now on that lone rock in the sea.
Alice MORNING,
There, I’ll untie yer. ’
that I do.”

