Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
FRIDAY.---“Oh, I wish I were a man !” Most women
have said it at some time or another. But wait a
moment, you men. It isn’t cock-crow just yet. the
compliment is not quite so honeyed as it tastes. For
is the wish not natural, since it is more convenient to
live as a man in a man’s world? If man did not make
the world, he made it as it is ! But, seriously,
compare the security of a man with the perennial
insecurityth at is woman’s. Relatively to man the hunter,
woman is the hunted animal; and while the dangers of
the hunter are usually exhilarating and often attended
with rewards and glory, the dangers incurred by the
hunted are not only often fatal, but usually thankless.
The battle-worn man is a hero. The mother-worn
woman is only a nuisance; or, at most, an object for
pity-not one for honour or reverence. Then, of
course, men have the pull of us in minor things like
dress, latch-keys, cheque-books, and freedom in goingabout.
Yes, I would like to be a man. Rut (still do
not crow, for here’s the sting in the honey) I have
never seen the man I would like to be ! There’s a
reflection on men’s manners and minds ! and a discovery,
too, which now I come to think of it, is the key to quite
a number of women’s grievances. It accounts ’for a
woman’s annoyance at being unfavourably compared
with all men. It
is one thing to tell her that she is less wise than a
Voltaire or a Plato, but to tell her that she is less wise
than any man merely because he is a man-well, no
wonder she is embittered. Then another point. Last
week I heard two men gnawing the old complaint of
women being no longer content to stay at home and
sacrifice unto their would-be masters. Certainly I
wouldn’t have cooked a potato for either of them,
which, however, doesn’t mean to say that when I see
a man worth admiring I wouldn’t gladly lay all my
burnt offerings before him. I really don’t believe any
woman objects to paying homage where homage is due;
and, indeed, most women are even too ready to admit
the practical superiority of men. But the chance event
of being a man is not proof conclusive of the all-round
superiority of the beast over woman. Yet, from the
peacock’s way men behave, anyone would think it
was. It’s not good enough, and there is no wonder
that some women have been driven to a flat denial of
men’s superiority in any respect. If men want women
to be women they must prove themselves men worthy of
women. Men have the women they deserve. In his
relation with woman the modern man is disposed to rest
on the laurels won by the great men of the past. There
have been, and are, men fit for any woman’s worshipaye,
and man’s, too. But a few swallows do not make
a summer, or the cloak of the few great cover a multitude
of fools. I sound the depths of man after man.
Heavens! I cry. No woman could swim in such
shallows. And the mud ! the weeds ! If being a man
means being like these, I would rather be myself. But,
then, of course, as woman I see imperfections in man
and errors in his treatment of women which, I take
it, few men have the within-sight to see for themselves,
try if they did. Once a man, perhaps I myself would
go vainly strutting on thus in the sun of my ignorance.
But is the ignorance invincible ? Couldn’t, perhaps,
women writers make it their pleasure to hold up the
woman’s mirror to men? Might not a Manual for
Men of Manners to Women be compiled by some of
them? Oh, men needn’t remind me. Another day I
shan’t forget man’s case against woman. But this is
“ladies’ day,” please, and I’m not going to finish
without repeating that classic story of the man and the
suffragette-orator.
Male voice from the mob : “Yah miss, wouldn’t you
like to be a man?”
‘‘Yes ; wouldn’t you ?”
Saturday.-Is it true that the bad things said of a
Take the case of the clever woman.
man are a source of attraction to women? Women love
rakes. They prefer a Juan to a Joseph, I have heard
it said again and again in criticism of woman. But
what is a rake? Isn’t a rake a man who is all things
to all women, as various as Proteus? He can go
about in the form of a very alluring invitation. Mr.
Prodigal requests the honour of being reformed by Miss
Angel. (Or-translated-will you walk into my
parloure?tc .) So, to the nice woman, there is always a
kind of invalid pathos about the rake. Poor boy, says
she; drinking himself to death. I wonder what sent
him wrong. Some woman, I’ve no doubt. He really
looks quite nice. I will take him in hand ! Hers is the
quest of the shepherd for the black sheep. Or, again,
the rake is the dare-devil dandy, the debonair fellow,
promissory of just enough danger to make acquaintance
with him piquant. Here’s some excitement, says the
flirt to herself. I
remember when I cautioned Joan against someone.
“Oh,” was the reply, “he may be like that with others,
but he’ll find me a very different person to deal with.”
Thus every woman flatters herself that she, of course,
will wield a unique influence over this dangerous rascal.
It is always oneself who isn’t going to get hurt.
Meanwhiliet ’s great fun fanning the spark of risk, watching
it flame, and promising oneself to put it out as soon as
a conflagration is threatened. The apples of danger
have an eternal temptation. I really don’t believe,
however, that women’s enjoyment of a rake’s society
springs from so evil a seed as men seem to suppose.
There is virtue in it. If it were not so, would public
prejudice also usually be on the side of the ne’er-dowell?
The man who appears to lack discretion is ever a
good sort”-a happy-go-lucky, thoroughly kindhearted
fellow, honourable as Achates, open-handed and
free. Rakes know the world. They are generous, not
only with their money, but with their judgment and
criticism. They are audacious. They can play a
losing hand in any game and keep their countenance
and their temper. They know how to carry off an
awkward situation in public, so that they become a very
pleasant help in time of social trouble. A rake is usually
pleasing to the eye. He dresses well, and his manners
have charm. The rake proper, in fact, has all the social
qualities that make a man beloved of society. And
society is not altogether wrong, for while his virtues
are real, his vices are often only defects of virtues.
The thoughtful, steady person, on the other hand, is a
bore, a nuisance, a walking criticism, a dose of duty
in man’s clothing. Women hold no copyright in a
weakness for sinners. Saints must be their own
reward; theirs is the lost labour of love; they are a drug
in the market, going at a reduction, cheap. What a
world ! People would reject Paradise for Piccadilly,
I do believe! And perhaps that is why we are here!
But the rake’s success with women is easy to account
for. Most women choose men as they choose colours,
the brighter the more attractive, the plainer the duller;
be the material what it may. Again, women are more
easily won by dexterity than merit. A particular motive
for men’s approbation of a rake may be that to them
he appears in the role of avenger; a very serviceable
member in the Trade Union of Men; one who may,
perchance, pay back with interest a grudge owed by the
Union to all women-kind. For, alas ! many a butterfly
has been caught in the teeth of a rake. But, there, a
man will always scorn the woman who loves a rake, just
as women will always scorn men when they exclaim
admiringly : “By Jove, she’s a smart little devil, isn’t
she?” But this is a contra-account. I must pursue the
rake’s progress another time. Meanwhile, I amend the
old sailor’s maxim, No brandy, no fits-with, No
admirers, no rakes. For a rake’s food is the admiration
of others; and without it he cannot live. Beau Brummell
died an imbecile pauper.
Sunday.-Furniture, like good manners, should be
seen and not heard. Really one would need to be deaf
and dumb to praise some people’s taste in chairs and
curtains and wall-papers. “For pity’s sake, cotton-
And it’s no use warning a woman.
“
wool for my ears,” I once heard Joan shout across to
a man. “This carpet and desk of yours are so noisy
I can’t hear myself speak !” She was right : even the
feather-brained ostrich, pluming itself on its neck-andcrop
scale of digestion, couldn’t have swallowed those
over-done pieces of richness ! Chamber of Horrors !
each flourish of furniture but served to illustrate the
vulgar manner of thinking and feeling of which it was
clearly the outcome. Furniture betrays character.
Peeps into rooms are peeps into personalities. This
trick of conscripting armour for service in halls-
But, hold ! Good Sir Vizor, prithee, a truce till morn !