Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
MONDAY.-Let me see, I was writing about the folly
of furnishing a house with armour that wasn’t worn by
your greatest cousin, William the Conqueror. I remember
-if only I couId forget !-that quack hall I saw the
other day. Poor thing ! always masquerading in fancy
dress! Like a shop-window in Wardour Street. For
it is easy to distinguish between the sort of furniture
that represents the taste of the owner, and that which
is his by ancestral right. Even the strangest and ugliest
ornaments are not out of place if immemorial sentiment
shines from them. Battle-axe or antimacassar, antiques
that really did belong to our fathers and mothers are like
hereditary habits. They seem to have got into our
blood, and to have become a quite natural part and
parcel of our surroundings. Then I wish people would
realise the importance of furnishing in harmony. A
room isn’t a Strauss symphony-or shouldn’t be-and
for furniture to proceed in discords of colour and kind
shows a shocking lack of fine feeling. Wicker-work and
brocade, for instance, are not stable companions. Might
as well expect a Rosinante and a Pegasus to look right
in tandem. Yet Heavens ! that room last week ! That
such a zoological garden of styles should be possible !
Japanese-Garden City-Victorian-Cockney. I
compared it with Norah’s little cream-and-coffee-coloured
joy of an attic-though it is. She has kept everything
in one key, and the result is an air of the most perfect
tranquillity. The difference is just that between the
effect of two vases; the one in tone with a few flowers of
the same kind, the other fairly screaming with a bouquet
various of many colours. How often, indeed, have I
sat blinking before the broadside of a whole battery of
unconsonant furniture, fearing, it is a fact, to make the
acquaintance of my hostess. What a room ! What
taste ! Then-it is inevitable-what a vulgar person !
Let this be a warning of the kind of deduction that is
formed when bad taste is displayed in furniture. For in
no way do we get a more sudden revelation of what a
person is than by a glance round his room. Furniture is
the embodiment of character. Again and again I have
noticed that intellect and wisdom furnish the simplest
rooms. The cultured person prefers to live in quietlooking
surroundings. Everything retreats in his
retreat. Uncultured people, on the other hand, want
company for their minds, the louder the merrier. Rooms
with every wall a cinema screen would, I suspect, best
provide the perpetual outside stimulus their natures
fancy.
Wednesday.-Miss, Miss, Miss ! Not all the
perfumes of Arabia will sweeten this little word. Oh, oh,
oh! Apologies to Shakespeare by all means, but some
to women, too; for I’ve never yet met the woman who
isn’t vexed by hearing the man she is with call a
waitress “Miss. ” Does this surprise men, I wonder?
I gather it does. Well, let me add consternation : the
use of the word supplies me with so much food for
annoyance, I never want any dinner after it ! My
difficulty, however, is that while all the women I’ve
consulted on the subject agree that “Miss” is, “Oh,
simply Hopeless !” they have no better explanation of
it. (I wish women would find reasons for their
conclusions. Intuition needs arguments to lean upon,)
But though I fight single-headed, fight I will while
there is breath in man’s body to call “Miss.” The
chief source of the trouble, I believe, is in the implication
that no man takes a woman’s work seriously
(unless he wants to make a complaint about her !). A
woman’s sex is not for him absorbed in her work.
Hence, to a man, a waitress is still a woman first.
Thus “waitress,” so nearly like waiter, is too businesslike
a term-so the excuse runs. But why not just
“please”? There must be some fitting alternative, for
I know men who have never used the word “Miss” in
the whole of their cafe-careers, and have neither gone
without food in consequence, nor yet had it
accompaniebdy an obligato of gorgonly scowls. Women,
too, manage to get served civilly enough without shouting
“Miss.” Well, but how is a man to attract the
attention of a shop assistant, say, or a post-office girl,
except by calling out ‘‘Miss ”? I repeat, women
manage it. Resides, if the assistant is a man, men
customers seem to get on perfectly well without calling
Out “Mister.” At least, on this side of the goldfishpond
they do, and America is no man’s model. But
anyhow, you ask, what is wrong with the word? Why
are women annoyed by hearing their men friends call
a waitress “Miss”? To begin with, I suppose a woman
expects the waitress to call her “miss” (though she
prefers “madam” : N.B.--all waitresses, please !), and for
her companion to put himself on the same nominal
footing with the waitress, as she with her, is comparatively
provoking. Then, somehow, there is a suggestion
of intimacy about “Miss.” The waitress is no
longer a waitress, but a “Miss.” And, frankly, I, for
one woman, don’t know how to deal with a person
my host calls ‘‘Miss.” What is expected of me? Am
I to ask her to tea? And let the man wait on us both?
Then, at least, there would be method in his “Miss” !
Again, the use of “Miss” turns a restaurant into a
public-house-for me, at any rate. Is it, indeed, an
extension of the bar habit? Oh, but how I hate a man
taking me to a place where he knows the waitresses.
Off comes his hat, probably much more totally than
it did when he met you five minutes before.
"Evidentlym ore at home with waitresses than the likes o’
me,” you conclude. Follow nods and becks and
wreathed smiles right and left all up the aisle (you
thanking God it is only a restaurant aisle !) One more
step, “Menu, miss, please, ” and collapses your
crumbled opinion of him. Is he
a “seen-better-days” calling for a drink? Or a shopwalker
addressing a young lady assistant ? There-I
can see the opening of a dozen discussions. Should a
man take off his hat to waitresses, shop assistants,
etc.? Why shouldn’t a man take off his hat to
waitresses, shop-assistants, etc. ? Why does a man
take off his hat to waitresses, shop-assistants, etc.?
Why doesn’t a man take off his hat to waitresses, shopassistants,
etc. ? What type of man does, doesn’t-and
so on? For me they are all settled by the general theory
that the world is man’s home, and his women visitors
therein are his guests, while the paid officials, during
their hours of office, are his servants. Would a man
expect a woman whom he visits to curtsey to her
servants? Servants should be directed without words. The
more non-existent they become, the more perfect.
Thursday.--“Well, I do call this absurd of Violet,”
Joan exclaimed, as she tore open a black-bordered
envelope this evening. “She only does it for effect. I
never saw anything so excessive !” Excessive ! What
nonsense! As though there could be anything excessive
in four narrow black lines. I know it’s more than
twelve months ago since Violet’s mother died, and, of
course, it isn’t necessary to keep in mourning after a
year. But people who know Violet must see she isn’t
the sort of girl to wear her heart on her note-paper
simply for effect. Her motive is as plain as her mourning
paper-which she continues to use as the easiest way
of telling her friends that she doesn’t wish to be asked
to any social entertainment. If only all people were as
modest as Violet in their public tokens of mourning ! Is
not the public indication of private grief only desirable
in so far as it is a warning to society not to expect you
to join in any merry-making of theirs? But whereas,
for this purpose, a hint in the form of the simplest black
is surely sufficient, there are people who muffle
themselvesi n crepe, and adopt half-inch black borders for
their handkerchiefs and notepaper. To what end? Do
they really want the public to share and take part in
their personal sorrow? It is well known that the more
obscure the family, the more ostentatious the funeral.
And if it is fully public so much the better ! As they
command the grief of the passing traffic, the occupants
(for the first time) of a four-wheeled funeral carriage
experience some of the sensations, and feel more than
the pride, of royalty. Well, I suppose to be one of a
funeral procession is the poor man’s only chance of
compelling public respect and attention, and the more
showy the trappings the more homage he thinks himself
likely to collect. But in England, at any rate, the
simplests tandard of mourning has come, at the same time,
to be the most adequate; and it is significant that on
an occasion of private grief, society has the good
The vulgarity of it !
manners to allow us to be effective without being affected.
Let us encourage society, then, and beware of turning
personal bereavement into nothing more dignified than
a display of bad taste. “Pompous funerals,” says
Rochefoucauld, “are made more out of a design to
gratify the vanity of the living than to do honour to the
dead. ’ ’
A