A Likely Lie.
ONE of the advantages of being a demon is that you
can make yourself any size you please. As everybody
knows, a geni can squeeze into a little bottle, or it can
enlarge itself as high as a mountain. Goodness only
knows how this privilege is come by. Some people have’
suggested an analogy with the mind of a man which,
while at moments great, is yet, at other moments,
capable of showing itself very small indeed. The
analogy, however, is not an explanation; but one
insignificanta le-teller certainly is not called upon to solve
what the whole world so far has failed to discover. The
indisputable fact may be left as stated-that a spirit
can make itself any size it pleases.
It would need to have been a very, very small-sized
spirit, if it were one whom the Sun made visible, which
escaped the feverish eyes of a young person who had
selected a lonely lake in a space of a decayed wood for
the purpose of suicide at twilight. The trees around
were as grey as the hot clouds, mere grey, mildewed,
skeletons. The grass and heather were thin. You
would not have believed that a beetle might have
concealedit self there. Yet there was concealed a strange
beetle which sat under a tiny clump of heather close by
the self-doomed maiden. The strangeness of the beetle
was not less for its having only four legs; it had green
silken wings, a hard, black back, little gold bands
around its hind legs, and tiny red claws to finish its
front ones : it had large eyes, like your ordinary beetle,
but, also, its minute yellow face showed a set of
brilliant teeth, and around its body were folded veils of
gossamer.
“Whatever is about?” exclaimed the. self-doomed
maiden; “I’m sure something is about. For two pins
I would go back home.”
“They’ll watch you more strictly than ever after your
absence all this afternoon,” answered a Voice. “Give
them a good fright instead. Do not drown yourself,
but take off your clothes, leave them on the bank, and
wander home as though you were mad.”
“It is not a bad idea,” said the self-doomed maiden.
“You see that if you drown yourself, you can never,
never marry him.”
The self-doomed maiden then cried, “Our souls will
wed in Paradise.”
“DO not be too sure of that. It is a sin to commit
suicide. Much more likely that he will wed some one
else here below. Be clever now; strew your clothes
about the bank and run home in your chemise, babbling
and threatening. They will be only too pleased to hush
it all up, and let you marry whom you choose so as to
get you off their hands.”
“I must wait until it is dark, then.”
“Not too dark, or you will appear not mad enough.
Do it just before the day goes down, in about five
minutes from now. ”
The maiden did. Off came her lovely hat, coat, frock
and petticoats. “DO not forget your shoes,” said the
Voice. “Bare feet are a sure sign of madness.” Off
came her stockings and shoes, and off went the maiden
wailing insanely : “O WilIy, Willy O !”
The sun, which had been sinking in hot mist, was
now not to be seen at all. But what was to be seen
was a fair, curly-locked lady hurriedly dressing herself
in the abandoned clothes. “What a plight !” she
exclaimed. “How disagreeable this world is by day.
Yesterday I spent flying across the sea, the day before
huddled in a thicket; one day in an old hag’s basket of
herbs, another in the arras of a concert-room. How the
old Herr conductor jumped when I wandered up singing
his Aria! That made my fortune for a whole week.
Rut what am I going to do now?”
She was walking rapidly down a good road which
descended, and soon she came into a big harbour-town-
Evidently the town was en fete. Flags waved from
all the houses ; and the people were singing and dancing
in the streets.
“Hurray ! Hurray !” they shouted. “Hurray for the
British Navy !”
Curlilocks passed along the streets, but very soon she
was stopped before a crowd of men and girls dancing
right across a road. She was turning to walk back
when one of the men, a sailor, seized her, exclaiming :
“Here’s a pretty lass !” She faced him in his arms as
he held her, and said softly,: “You will look after me,
won’t you? I’m all alone.’’ For answer the sailor
replied : “Dance, it’s all right !” He danced her down
the street until they were out of sight of the rest, and
loosed her, saying : “That’s a rough lot, there. NOW,
what’s the matter?”
“I’m hungry,” replied Curlilocks, “I’ve run away,
and I’m lost and hungry.”
“O-eh, is that it?” He stared at her fashionable
clothes, and said : “What do you want, a beer?’?
“No, some coffee and a sandwich. Here is a
restaurant. ”
They went in; and while the coffee was coming the
sailor put his arm around Curlilocks, waist and said
chaffingly : “Who’ve you run away from, dearie?”
“A horrid old man,” replied Curlilocks, “who threatened
to beat me. I borrowed this coat and hat and
came into the town.” All this was as near truth as a
woman would wish to be ! But the sailor laughed
roughly: “That for a tale! You know the town all
right. However, I don’t care? you’re the girl for me.
Hurry up and finish your coffee.”
Curlilocks said to herself: “I should not run away
from any but a dull adventure. This threatens to be
dull. I shall quit this stupid sailor.” However, she
was saved the trouble, The tramp of feet on patrol was
heard. The door of the restaurant was opened. Two
other sailors looked in. “Johnson !” exclaimed one of
them, friendly enough. And Johnson rose, exclaimed,
“Reefed, b’ Gud !” saluted Curlilocks, saying, “See
you again, dearie !” and went out.
Instantly the waitress walked up to Curlilocks and
presented the bill-one shilling-. Curlilocks looked
helplessly in the air and around the restaurant. The only
other customer was an old man, who took no notice of
anything but his plate of soup.
Curlilocks glanced at the bill and was about to
explain when a motor was heard at the door. A footman
in a fine livery put his head inside and looked around.
He was about to retire when a feminine voice behind him
exclaimed hastily : “That is Lady Maud’s hat and coat,
Egbert !” The footman then came in followed by an
elderly maid, who advanced severely towards Curlilocks,
and said-“Excuse me, madam, but do you know
where the Lady Maud Slingsby is at this moment?”
Curlilocks rose : “Pay the waitress,” she said,
carelessly, “and take me at once to the Countess.” The
maid’s severity took a more formal air. “The car is at
the door, madam, if you please. ” They drove in silence,
each thinking hard, for several miles, entered park
gates, and pulled up outside a great mansion. The
man who opened the front door started and stared a
little before saluting Curlilocks, and whispered to the
maid : “She’s found.” The maid whispered back to
him, and said aloud : “Waters, madam will wait in
Lady Maud’s morning-room,” frowned and nodded at
Waters, and went off through the great hall, which was
like an amphitheatre, and full of armour, and up one of
the stairways. Waters said : “Please to come this way,
madam,” and led Curlilocks into a pretty littIe room,
where he left her. “This will be amusing,” she said to
herself. “How easy it is to have to do with well-bred
people !”
An elderly gentleman entered with an elderly lady,
“Down with Germany !”
both seeming puzzled and agitated. “you have an
explanation for me,” said the lady.
"You-wonhdoewr I came by these clothes?”
returned Curlilocks, coldly.
“I beg your pardon, will you sit down? We have had
such a fright.’’
“Pray, do not let me add anything to your anxiety.
I will tell you at once. I am staying at the Grand
Hotel in the town. I have a mania for bathing in fresh
water. I
found it, and just after sundown went in to bathe. On
coming- out of the water I missed my clothes. Searching
frantically, I found, not my clothes, but these ! Not
another soul was about! After a few moments I
decided to put these clothes on. I hurried back into town.
It was full of drunken people. A man terrified me into
taking refuge in a restaurant, where I ordered some
coffee, for I was exhausted---and there your servants
found me. There was no money in the pockets, so _"
“Oh, we are so sorry !” exclaimed the lady and
gentleman. “Our daughter-” they paused
profoundly. “Our poor child-”
“Please do not think it necessary to tell me
anything,” rejoined Curlilocks, feelingly. “If you will
permit me to return to the hotel in these clothes and if
you can telephone them to send a carriage for me-
Mrs. Bedenham. ”
“Our car, of course, shall take you down, but first
we must give you some supper. You must be
famished. ”
So Curlilocks had supper with the Countess, who did
not wish to answer any questions, so could not ask any.
The Grand Hotel was not a very grand hotel, but
dignified, and the Countess knew that she knew a lady,
which, if tact distinguished a lady from a person, she
certainly did. They speculated on what had become of
the missing clothes. However, Curlilocks managed to
gather that she was at Slingsby Court, the home of Lord
St. Maximillion. The car was announced. “Good-bye,
Mrs. Bedenham,” said the Countess, “and thank you
so much. If I can ever be of the least service, you will
riot forget me? May I send in the morning to know how
you are? I shall be hoping that you have not taken
cold. ”
“Thank you. I am sure to he perfectly well. Goodbye."
Curlilocks got into the car, attended by the severe
maid, now expressing herself in various pullings and
tuckings of the rugs about Curlilocks, knees. A few
words established relations easy enough to allow both
to fall into sleepy silence until they reached the Grand
Hotel; The severe maid found nothing strange in being
dismissed in the doorway by a visitor already settled
at an hotel; and the hotel was too agreeably surprised
to find the Slingsby car at its door and a Slingsby lady
demanding house-room for reflection whether things
were done quite like that in the Slingsby world.
The Grand Hotel only began to reflect next afternoon,
by which time Number Fifteen had not yet rung
for breakfast. The Countess’s message arrived and
waited for an answer. The maid knocked. The waiter
knocked. The hostess knocked, knocked, knocked and
knocked. No answer. “Something must be wrong,”
declared the hostess, “I shall unlock the door.” She
unlocked it, and peeped in. The room was empty. On
a chair lay a package tied up and addressed with a
note to the Countess St. Maximillion. The Slingsby
car ran back with the package. The Countess sent
for the severe maid, and said : “You will be passing the
Grand Hotel presently. Call in and tell them to send me
Mrs. Bedenham’s account. That is all-unless,
perhaps-yes, you might know that Mrs. Redenham is a
little eccentric. ”
“Mercy
me !” exclaimed the Countess, “I hope we shall hear no
worse than this !” She never heard any more of any
kind, better or worse, of Mrs. Redenham.
I heard of a lonely lake up in these hills.
The door closed behind the severe maid.
ALICE MORNING