Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
FRIDAY.--” I won’t have him swearing at me ; I’m
damned if I will !” said the sprightly Duchess of Eighty
in a play I saw the other week. Chestnut ! (Don’t
mean the Duchess I) Yet how the audience hee-hawed
from donkey-stalls upwards ! And a critic the next day
remarked that the Duchess could say her damn with
the best of us. It is to this “best of us” that I object.
For the “best of us” do not say “damned” unless we
mean exactly “damned.” To swear not by meaning
but from habit implies a lack of vocabulary and invention,
particularly in the matter of the small change of
conversation. For the use of swear-words in expressing
every-day emotions produces a false emphasis
comparablet o the bang of a drum in a flute obbligato. For
a man to swear in women’s company is ill-mannered
for the same reason that it would be unknightly taste
for a soldier to wear his helmet in a drawing-room, or
to attend a concert with his sword drawn. Helmets and
swords are for particular emergencies ; and so are
swear-words. To go about hacking people’s feelings
with inapposite expletives is only the parallel of doing
bodies unwarranted injury. Here, then, comes the
reason why women shouldn’t swear. (Why do women
copy men’s vices instead of their virtues?) A swearword
is the equivalent in words of a blow in deeds.
There are occasions, no doubt, when it is fitting for a
man to swear, just as there are occasions, no doubt,
when it is fitting for him to use his fists; but it is never
for women to employ these methods of defence. For a
woman to swear is to challenge man with his own
weapons in her own want of them. She is even more
ridiculous a-swearing than a little man without authority
employing enormous terms-issuing I O U’s of
violence that he cannot honour. Epigram-sarcasma
penetrating truth-manner alone-these, on the other
hand, are woman’s proper means of pointing an
argument. In general, swearing indicates a poverty of
vocabulary; but slang, again, indicates a poverty of
meaning. Slang has its currency among the least
intellectual of us. It is the language of the insider,
vulgarised by the outsider. The phrases professional to
the politician, the sportsman, the student, the social
man, the artist, the business man (and only rarely
employed by them) are seized by the hangers-on as crumbs
from the tables of the great to be passed off henceforward
as the real loaves of intimacy. But such use
only brings both speaker and profession into contempt.
Slang, says Nietzsche, is “a language of inverted
commas and grimaces.” To use slang is to rob the
beasts of their ways of expressing delight or annoyance.
A pig grunts: a cat purrs: a child Goo-goos--a man
barks damned fine-beastly jolly-or any other phrase
of the day. Have you never heard a conversation like
the following ?
Ripping, eh?
Oh, ripping !
Ripping-absolutely !
By Jove, how ripping !
Ripping !
Ripping !
Sunday.-Tremenjus talk with Joan last night !
Work work, work, she complained; That’s all men
think about. Women? Oh, all right to flirt with, but
nowhere, of course, to their rotten old work. Well,
of course, I said, men think more of work than of
anythinge lse-but why not? Work is to men what love
is to women; it’s their whole existence. After all, it’s
a fair division of romantic labour : women supply the
love, men provide the cottage. Both jerry-built, said
Joan viciously. Well, at any rate, I said, the cottage
usually lasts longer than the love. Men stick to work
longer than women stick to love. Even when they
don’t love their work men don’t go flitting about from
profession to profession as women go flitting about
from man to man. No, said Joan, and why? Because
work is a thousand times easier to live with than a
man. And yet
why should it be so? Both love and work run through
the same stages. Both start as a pleasure, continue as
a duty, and remain as a necessity : so that when
pleasure goes, there is duty to hold us, and when duty
flaps its wings there is necessity. Yes, said Joan, but
at each stage the woman is a lot worse off. Let’s
suppose that the pleasure in the first instance is equal;
when the pleasure has gone out of love, the duty and,
still more, the necessity, are very painful; but when the
pleasure has gone out of work, there is still plenty of
satisfaction left. Things, you know, don’t lose their
temper; you can’t hurt their feelings; they don’t get
jealous; and they stay where they are left. Besides,
the domestic career carries no salary, and even if you
can’t be dismissed, neither can you give notice. And
then you mustn’t even grumble about it. Harry can
say, “Oh, damn the office,” as often as he likes, but, my
word, if I were to say, “Oh, damn Harry !” But, said I,
you’re not blaming men for what cannot be helped, are
you? Oh, dear me, no, scoffed Joan. But they ought
to see the pull they have over us, and make up for it
in manners and consideration. Manners, yes, I said:
hut what sort of consideration? Well, said Joan, if
work is everything to men and love everything to
women, they ought to exchange on equal terms. Men,
I suppose, get brains out of their work, or they should.
Well, why should they not give their brains to women,
as women are supposed to give them love? But not a
bit of it! Men expect women to shower love about
as if they were conducting a Christmas tree or running
a charity. It is their nature to ! But ask a man to
dispense his time or his conversation, ask him to explain
anything-unless there is the prospect of a flirtation at
the end of it-he’s simply rude. Look at Harry ! I’m
to be ready with kisses and dinner at any moment. I’ve
to be sympathetic about his work and about the work
of his friends. My job is sympathy, if you please. But
if I go into his study when he’s working, or if I expect
his friends to talk intelligently to me-wow, wow !
Tuesday.-Do or don’t men want women in cafes?
If they don’t, why do they pretend they do? If they do
-and men always say they do-why do their ways belie
them? Suppose women stopped talking as soon as a
man joined, say, a tea-party, would he feel himself
welcomed in the paralysis? Yet that is the unhappy
experience of the woman who joins a group of men at
a cafe. Silence, awkwardness and neglect. All silent
and all damned! For example, the scene at the Cafe
Republique last night when Norah came up. One man
she didn’t know insisted on vigorously shaking hands,
while another remained anonymously pawing in the
background, like a bear waiting to catch a bun. Of
the men she had met before, two didn’t budge, and
mother broke a glass in nearly jumping out of his hide
to find a seat for her. For ten minutes no one spoke
more than the weather permitted. Then three of the
men returned to a formulary philosophical discussion in
which they were joined for an hour by a man who had
left his woman-companion alone in another corner of
the cafe, to reflect, I suppose, on philosophers ! Finally,
a. youth came churning up like a cattle-boat and
anchored himself, without excuse or sign of compunction,
between Norah and the man with whom she was,
at that very moment, struggling into speech. Now what
does such behaviour indicate-destitution of ideas and
indigence of vocabulary ?-that men cannot initiate and
sustain a conversation on subjects and in terms fit for
a woman to hear ?-that most men’s capacity for: speech
There’s a good deal in that, I agreed.
has never ranged between the shop and the publichouse?
It isn’t (Heaven forbid!) that I want men to
confine their topics to Irish poets and theatres. (As a
matter of fact, the less a woman understands of a
subject the more flattered she will be at the implication,
by the simple means of a look, a word, or an illustration,
that she is thought worthy to suffer in the cause of
the discussion on hand. What irritates women is
silence or the feeling of being talked dawn to by men who
haven’t yet learned to talk up to them.) But,
anyhow, a Cafe isn’t a debating hall, nor yet-I have it on
masculine authority-a place to think in, so that highfalutin
discussions yield more verbiage than fruit.
After all, for thinking purposes, one, if not two’s
company, but three’s certainly none. Thinking is
therefore not for society. The very raison d’etre of a
Cafe prohibits its employment for tete-A-tete technalysis.
A Cafe is a public drawing-room for the use of the
world at leisure, where, instead of being entertained by
mimes and lecturers, the people themselves are supposed
to provide their own mutual entertainment. The publichouse,
England’s greatest social institution, is-was, at
any rate-for men only; the Cafe, on the other hand, is
an epicene institution, wherein the men who talk men’s
shop are not doing their social duty. They are taking
the benefits of society, without paying toll to maintain
it. Their coffee-bill is no more than their price of
admission. Surely, however, the feminist movement
might have provided us with a real Cafe. Instead, it
has allowed the Cafe Republique, the once promising
beginning of the public-house of future society, to be
so mishandled by men that only women of a certain
type can be sure of enjoying themselves there. For
no intelligent woman is going to submit to being treated
like a pack of cards-shuffled and cut, hummed and
hee-hawed over like a doll or a dolt. Neither is a
nice woman going to a place where the presence of one
proper-mannered person puts all the company ill at
case; where at sight of an unknown woman every man
becomes tongue-tied and possessed of a mill of left
hands. Yet the same men-though few men less
deservew omen-complain of the sort of woman who goes
there ! How can they? Are they blind or stupid?
One of the accomplishments of cafe-going should be
easy talk and easy manners. (Easy--but how difficult !)
As it is, I declare the Cafe Republique holds London’s
most ill-mannered assemblage of men-(and women,
but of them anon !).