A Yarn for Marines.
THE aesthetic difficulties in describing a man’s beauty
are scarcely to be welcome. Say that he had dark,
curling hair--one were well-advised to add, not to be
imitated save by the pure in spirit among hair-dressers.
Say that his eyes were dark-it were none too near the
safe side of the novelette to claim for them the expression
which David cast upon Bathsheba when he saw her
bathing in Jerusalem. Say that his ears made even the
old women rave, that every feature was as if chiselled
and painted-one nears getting him disliked !
Marlowe, as he may be called, naval officer, was
admitted a handsome chap among the marines; so there
is no need to state that he was fairly well at home on
the sea, well-built and handy.
Marlowe, one evening in 1915, was leaning against
the side of a Dreadnought sailing out, with decks clear
as a cat’s plate, from X-, as the Censor would say.
Marlowe was talking nonsense, “red nonsense,’’ said
Beresford. “Red nonsense! All the same,” said
Beresford-“if it is true . . . if I were in your shoes,
sir”--Beresford was Marlowe’s superior, so, you
understand, his name was not exactly Marlowe-“if I
really dreamed once of a fairy who changed in my arms
from a fly to a living woman. . . .”
‘ ‘What ?’ ’
“I should add the final clauses to my last will and
“Confound you, Beresford !”
“As much as you please. I
believe in the uncanny !”
“Therefore, I had better make my last will.
Perfect.”
“Oh, it is not so simple as that. If I tell you
somethingy, ou won’t think I’m pebbling? . . . I saw a-a
kind of fly, to-day, on the bridge-and it had only four
legs. It flew up on the flag.
It was covered with stuff like silk, fine silk. And it had
noticed nothing !”
testament. ”
But it is uncanny.
And it was not hurt!
sparkling teeth. I sweated. Thank God. the -- S
“Well . . . Beresford . . . you have seen her !”
“I tell you that I believe in the uncanny. I believe
every word you have told me. These things happen !”
“I’m going below, Beresford. If I don’t come up
for dinner,--say--say I’m drunk.”
“ Don’t be a --, no, sir, something more likely than
that ! Besides, discipline . . . ?”
“All right. If you were to say that I’m
mad-so long !”
Marlowe went down to his wonderful, monstrous
large and elegant cabin. And sitting on the side of his
bed, robed In his bath-gown, was a lady, as golden and
violet as fabulous Helen.
The effect of violet eyes gazing into black ones is a
trick with the gods and the demons play upon
mortals. True mortal lovers have the same colour of
eyes; and they end their days in love, if not in peace.
The others end in aversion, or in indifference.
“You ! What a surprise!” softly exclaimed the
lady-“I’m so hungry !”
Marlowe locked the door ; and felt a need to throw off
his jacket and vest. The lady
insisted-“I’m so hungry !” Marlowe rang. The lady
hid behind a-crimson curtain. Marlowe kneeled and
kissed her shoulder, bath-gown and all. The lady took
his head between her hands-
I’ll turn up.
He threw them off.
Rat-tat !
The lady kissed Marlowe, nevertheless. Marlowe
Rat-tat !
The lady kissed Marlowe, nevertheless. Marlowe
Rat-tat !
The lady . . . nevertheless.
“Bring me a whisky and soda and a beef sandwich.’’
“Whisky and soda and a beef sandwich!” exclaimed
Marlowe . . .
Rat-tat !
The lady covered herself completely with the curtain.
The whisky and soda and
The
Marlowe put on his coat and vest. “Discipline !” he
“Trust me!” returned the lady, diving deep under
Marlowe . . . ! The lady said-“No, no, no, no, no !
Marlowe returned ready to expire. The lady . . . !
Rat-tat !
“Goad-night !” cried Marlowe-“er-o-eh? - !”
“Good-night, your . . . ’ss ! . . . I’ve never known
kissed the lady.
kissed the lady.
Marlowe . . .
“y’sir !”
the lady at his ear.
The lady . . .
Marlowe unlocked the door.
beef sandwiches entered ; and someone departed.
bugle sounded for dinner.
whispered.
the curtain.
Go, and return quickly !”
him drunk before!”
Now, who could believe that even the most wellappointed
ship’s cabin contained Summer, azure seas,
flowers, skies full of golden rays, vineyards heavy with
grapes, Stars, Moons, and Everything to Eat and
Drink? Well, it was all there in Marlowe’s cabin; or,
at least, if it was not really there, nobody noticed. Nobody
noticed for ever so long, until, in fact, the watchbells
rang four.
Then never was heard such a long anti deep sigh as
rent those two loving but ill-regulated bosoms, and
turned the cabin into a desert. Neither spoke a word.
Each knew what the other was thinking. Their night
was almost gone and would never be renewed except by
fortune! The sigh broke in two rivers of tears which
were no way to be dried up by kisses, and so the two
lovers did the next best thing and mopped each other’s
burning eyes with the sheet while searching under the
pillows for handkerchiefs. They gazed, gazed, gazed.
She seemed to say-”You remember our last meeting?"
And he : “But it was all in a dream.”
“What is this more than a dream?”
“I hold you.”
“I must go away at sunrise.
“And you will come no more!”
“Not often enough to weary you, at least.”
“Not often enough to content me, even.
You will believe it again
all a dream.”
But you
have no mortal will, I know that. You wander here
and there, a desire; and I who would keep you forever
in my heart-I have not power to do so. One cannot
capture for ever the fancy of even a mortal woman.
What hope, then, of a fairy’s constancy?’’
The lady laughed aloud, or almost, and Marlowe
smiled. This burst of mirth was very much out of
order. As everyone knows from the poets and Beresford,
tragedy and death ought to await the mortal who
loves a fay : and here were these two beginning to end
by making a comedy of the affair! Marlowe said,
nevertheless--“Let me carry you about with me by day
-thus you will remain always with me.”
“Gracious,” returned the lady-“how little is
dreamed of in your philosophy ! Why, I weigh in my own
form at least thirty infernal tons. Consider ! Anything
imaginable would seem light to you in comparison with
the weight of a desire which you carried about for every
second, minute, and hour of the day. No, no, your
daily discipline is a very sensible institution-you must
attend to duty and you will be relieved of me. How
clever men are in managing themselves !”
“No doubt I shall be glad of something to do all
day,” returned Marlowe; “but you, my desire, you
who have no discipline to distract you?”
“Ah, I have enough to do to preserve myself! If I
were seen I should he hunted. Some would hunt me to
get possession of me, and the rest to destroy me. And
remember that each sundown I am bound to realise on
pain of returning to punishment. Now suppose that I
were driven to realise in the middle of the hunting
crowd: even those who had wished for me might be
shocked and might join with the others to destroy me.
But do not look so aghast, my love ! The very danger
of all this attracts me to your earth-although I must
say that the life is more simple than I expected to find it,
everything being merely a question of money and
clothes. A naked and penniless desire alone has a
chance of adventure. . . .” She murmured and
murmured, and soothed him with her voice, saying nothing
more Intelligible than what one nears in dreams and
poems and old wives tales.
Marlowe took the lady’s hands in his, laid his head
down on the’ pillow, and sweetly, sweetly sank into
sleep. Presently, the lady pressed his hands, and
withdhrerws . His eyelids fluttered, but did not open.
Marlowe awoke when the sun was full in the porthole.
He leaned up on his elbow, gazed around the
cabin, jumped out of bed, and searched. Nothing
remarkable was anywhere there. In his bath, suddenly
he stopped splashing--‘ ‘Can old Beresford have played
me a trick ! But how . . . where . . . no, impossible.”
But, in fact, which would you have found easier to
believe-that old Beresford had concealed a lady on a
Dreadnought or that. . . as here has been related?
ALICE MORNING