The Eternal Feminine.
By Beatrice Hastings.
ONE darted not look at the sun, or even where it lay
in a sky the colour of blue steel; yet out in the open
road sat a baby with a little thin bonnet on, playing
with the sand And its hands, like sprays of desert
flower, were dry and cod.
“Where is your mother little one?”
“ NO-’0-0,’’ she said on, three distinct notes, and
shook her frail head.
“Nice sand ! Let’s take some and show mother.”
So we put some carefully in the tin can, and joined
hands, and went towards the pavement. The child
was “well dressed” in an incompetent way, with its
open-work bonnet, and short sleeves and ribands, and
the most useless little pair of brown kid slippers, worn
and buttonless.
“You carry the sand, and I’ll carry you-Tottie !”
She giggled or chuckled.
“ Me--Tally !” I hesitated whether that was her
name or if she meant to say “carry.”
“ Tally what ?”
“Mummy-baby-daddy-Thally !”
“ Oh-Sally ! Well, where is baby?”
“No-o-o---” But suddenly she pointed. It
seemed safer, after all to let her walk, on chance that
she might take the right direction. She stepped delicaitely,
and looked up every now and then from exexquisite
hazel eyes and each time, as she looked her
fingers tightened in their hold At a road quite near
by she turned up confidently, and again into a: passage
where stood a Dutch-built house with an outside
wooden staircase. She began to climb up, assisted by
lifts from behind, at the which she shrieked delightedly
The staircase mended on a balcony with three doors, all
shut Arrived at the top stair, the baby called
“ Mummy !” and hurried to bang with the tin can on
the first door. A tall woman came, without doubt the
mother; not the eyes alone were the same, but here
clearly was the source of that ineffable delicacy in the
child the fine bredding that toned its skin, the gentilesse
less’e, sympatica, all of humaneity, that distinguished
the intelligent little being. Here was also something
naturally not to be seen in the child : trouble ! The
glance was confiding, but not quick, like that of the
adorable child. It lingered upon me.
She opened the door wide saying, “ Come in,” and
held it open SO we went in the baby grasping her
dress and babbling at a great rate about the sand. It
was a cheap room and, one knew instantly, the only
one for all the family. On a moderately small bed
lay an infant sleeping and beside the bed was a box
with a bottle of milk on it, and feeding things. Another
box held an oil-stove and some bread and butter. The
furniture was only the bed, two chairs, a washstand,
and oilclolth. I took a chair. The room was hot, and
as the window curtain moved in the draught from the
open door great rays of sunshine blazed across the
oilcloth and dazzled one’s eyes. Almost before I could
blink the woman had drawn a blind. “That is better
eh?” That lingering look ! If ever confidence can
be at once bewildered, hopeless resigned, and in-
,destructible, this woman expressed in her manner what
made such an impression Her movements, slow as
a rule, and tender, were enchanting, almost exciting in
their delicacy. She took the child on her knee, and
brushed its hair, and retied some makeshift laces
which I had not noticed had slipped right. down into
the shoe, or, perhaps, been pulled off and tucked there.
Sally talked but the mother only looked in answer,
and, reaching for the bread and butter, broke off little
bits and fed the child carefully, brushing away a crumb
from its chin as one might who was handling a priceless
instrument Then Sally slipped away, unhindered and
went out with the can of sand to the balcony. The
woman stood as if dreaming, but, as I moved to rise
and leave she looked at me, as I thought full of wish
for me to stay, and herself sank again into her chair
her dress of washed and faded muslin falling in many
folds.
355
I sat subdued and fascinated realising quite well that
I sat amidst tragedy, assuredly amidst woe of poverty
on that ,burning, ,roaring, gold-smitten Rand, where the
signs of the outsider are unmistakable; but beyond this
plain pathos of destitution something worse something
calamitous breathed in that blank room Trouble was
in all its space. And suddenly one strange emptiness
took name : there was no sign (of a man-no man lived
here !
The woman spoke as, though this had been her own
thought : “My husband is away.”
“ Will he be back soon ?”
“Yes, soon He’s away two weeks now.”
Her accent was the clipped accent of people of the
land-colonial bred-but the sound of her voice was
ample as all else about her. She dreamed, saying no
more, and I sank along with her to a world of simple
feeling where thought could shape no more than in
waters and light. She had either put aside,
or had rarely used, conventional manners and
mine, always negligible, failed away now as everyone’s
do in some hour or another : man finds man simple
enough at times of threat and death. I sat with an embodiment
of trouble, dumb, impotent, not understanding-
and I think that my companion was equally perplexed
and helplessly docile. We bore the hour together.
So one would stay subdued out of oneself,
with a stranger stricken by the sun, or with an unknown
woman seized in labour, or with any wounded
thing ; so men stay where fate or panic has passed and
left shame and hurt behind, and the senseo f strangeness
is illuminated, and each one acts for another as for
himself.
Nothing was to be done or said-to remain was all
desired. Presently I began to think again, or, at least,
to feel towards thought. I felthe weight and rush
of all the Rand, screaming and burthened with a double
load of gold and unappeasable lust of gold, like a
thirst-mad camel bearing water upon its back, whose
tongue is wetted and no more ; and it all weighed light
against this quietly starving woman, in abandonment
unchecked in her feminity, tractable, submissive, and
persistent in living so long as life would hold together,
I made not then comparisons (of her with others of
her type-Helen and Andromache women feeble,
uncourageous or with only one kind of courage,
but endowed with very femality to persist by
adaptation and by the luck of the weak ; unseeking,
unresisting, such women pass from man to
man and from good to evil times, adored by everyone
for their constant grace and charm, and, above all, for
a beauty of movement, kindling, but never satisfying,
expectancy ; they are as sweet as hope itself, and as
unseizable as dew or bloom, and, themselves innocent,
they may cause men to commit mad acts for them.
With such a being I was sitting in the gates of fate,
sharing a shadow that was not mine, and lured to stay
by no words, or even by great idea of aiding her, for I
was a minor and dependent, but by all those sympathetic
qualities which made her, though impotent,
irresistible. The infant waked, and waked both of us.
She picked it up lightly as a flower, and held it, quite
still, while it rubbed its eyes and leaned half-laughing
on her shoulder Then I felt free to go. Awkwardly
enough, I said, “I’m going to give Sally some
money,” and at this she almost laughed with glee, saying,
“ Thank you, oh, thank you very much ! ” So,
probably, Helen took her pardon from Menelaus, and
Andromache a new wifehood. At the time I was, stupified
fied to tears to see that a few shillings could relieve
her so much. She wept when I wept, taking my hands
and squeezing them and rubbing them as though I were
the sufferer
Shall I come to-miorrow? ” I asked, and she replied,
‘‘ Please !”
When I went next day she was gone. The landlord
came up as I stood knocking at the door.
“ You want Mrs. Theophilus? ”
^c Sally’s mother? ”
“She’s gone. Someone fetched her. Her husband’s
in tronk (gaol), you know. I liked her, so I let her
stay, but she owed me a lot of rent. It’s paid now.
Her husband stole some money-ten pounds. He got
ill and lost his job, and then he took ten pounds. I
don’t care. I don’t blame him. But he’s doing two
months now. I thought they’d have let him off. Do
you know her? ”
“ Very little. I broughthe baby home from the
sun, and so I met her.”
And then he burst forth : “ I’ve never seen a woman
I liked better than that ! ”
I expected a great deal more, but he fell suddenly
inarticulate. “ She’s gone ! ” he finished, and touched
his hat and turned away.