Ropes of Sand.
THE Wise Woman of The Fifty Towers, which is a
gilded villa belonging to one, Djavid, of Constantinople,
was expecting something to happen. When wool will
not ravel, when wax will not melt, when eggs will not
addle, when milk can’t be spilt-then things are not
oozing in their ordinary monotonous course. So the
Wise Woman of Djavid’s villa expected something to
happen; and it did. Two minutes before sundown,
when all good people were getting ready to pray, the
Wise Woman looked into her magic mirror, and saw
portentous signs, and of a visitor. So she waddled out
into the court of her apartment, mechanically boxed all
the slaves’ ears, menaced the idle thieves with the
Prophet if they did it again, and waved everybody out
of the yard. All this was enacted with her accustomed
calm; at least, the idle thieves noticed nothing unusual.
But, once alone, the Wise Woman began to quiver in
all her four hundred and forty pounds of flesh. Her
bosom thumped and jumped, she came over in a terrible
perspiration, and great red patches appeared on her
visage. With wonderful nimbleness, she dropped on all
fours, and thus humbly advanced over her own
threshold and into her large best room furnished with a
Kidderminster carpet, three French chairs, and a
tabouret, murmuring-“I am ill and poor I am ill and
poor, 0 Powerful One!”
A Voice answered-“Health and riches be thine,
Fatima ! Arise !”
Fat Fatima arose, if this might be called arising
which first lunged towards every quarter of the compass
“Name of . . .
she began and broke off, tremulously regarding the
Powerful One who was a vast sort of Bird, and evidently
engaged in an uncommon process of moulting for as
the sun dropped out of the sky, and the room rapidly
grew dusk, and while the Wise Wornan twiddled her
thumbs with desperate precaution, the great, dazzling
eyes of the Bird shut and seemed to swallow themselves
and instantly opened like two lovely bright flowers, its
enormous green wings and black comb vanished beneath
golden tresses, its claws sank into little white hands;
and. in fact, before the sky had well time to turn to evening
purple, the Bird had turned into as fair a lady
Giaour as ever regretfully found herself most admired
when unadorned on a slave-market. The Wise Woman ,
untwiddled her thumbs and threw up her hands, eyes,
and hairs together, no great sign of surprise, considering
the prodigy.
“Meat and drink !” commanded the Powerful One,
gracefully taking a divan. The Wise Woman brought
some nougat, a leg of pork, and a bottle of raki.
“How many passions are left in your House?” asked
the Powerful One, eating.
“Only one All the world has gone mad to make itself
--Hopeless. People have decided that in Hope resides
Unhappiness, that only the Hopeless are Happy. So
they are all setting about denuding themselves of Hope.
Djavid has gone to war with England. His mother has
taken to her bed. His favourite LoIa, has brought
about a miscarriage. The rest of his wives have fallen
in love with the eunuchs. His uncle has turned Christian
and, if anything may be owned after this-his
eldest son has sailed for America ! You come to a
House of very nearly perfect Hopelessness. ”
before attaining the perpendicular.
“Only very nearly? Why, what remains?’’
“Little Kunu, who hopes to shoot an Englishman
The girl has cast her lawn chemise for a shield and her
silk trousers for a pair of red calicoes.”
“Well, well, I was about to begin wondering how
long you mortals could support such a life of blindness,
groping and disappointment as is yours. Myself in
Djavid’s place would risk a thousand empires for a day’s
real gambling. If I were Djavid’s mother, I would
drink hemlock to escape nothing but your mortal old
age. If I were Lola, no bored and hysterical Djavid’s
son should live to drive me to my bed. His other wives
these will at least hear passionate accounts of love.
As for his uncle-a Christian is in some minor respects
a change from a Turk. America is not quite so far as
Gehenna, And a calico trouser may serve Kunu better
than a silken one if Djavid loses. I see nothing hopeless
in all this, although much desperate. Everything
shows that your mortals are wearied out of their dull
existence and will have it changed, or perish here and
hereafter. I think they will perish, however. Your
mortal world is a jungle, old woman, and what makes
things dull is that the battle is now about equal between
the ,birds and the snakes, the bulls and the tigers, the
wolves and the sheep, the spiders and the flies. The
birds have learned to glide, the bulls have learned to
spring, the sheep have learned to bite, and the flies have
learned to spit sticky poison. Poets, orators, clerks,
and journalists- -these are now the equals of Kings,
Courtiers; Bishops, and Judges.”
“It is all the work of the philosophers !” screamed the
Wise Woman.
The Powerful One replied-“Yes. Say of the
neglected philosophers. A more venomous species
never took offence against sackcloth and dry breadthough,
I think, perhaps, the lack of candles worse
vexed them. What things I have seen in my time ! I saw
once in Paris-but enough of your drearsome jungle !
Bring me to the butterflies. I want to talk to Djavid’s
mother, and LoIa, and the eunuchs’ loves and little
Kunu.
“If your Infernal Highness will condescend to be a
Wandering Wise Woman ?”
The Powerful One laughed-‘ ‘As you please. ”
The Wise Woman brought out a mantle of black velvet
a veil, and a suit of gauze and silk and gilded velvet
which arrayed the Powerful One like a many-coloured
star at evening : “Explain nothing, old woman she
said-“Leave to me what small wit is required on your
earth. ’ ’
The Wise Woman led out of her door, over the
courtyard, through a grove and up a flight of steps
which gave upon a picture-gallery where, certes, all the
artists of London, Paris, and Rome might have
instructed themselves as to what on earth becomes of
their “pot-boilers. ” Cubisms still-lives, Madame
Pompadours, Westminster, the Tiber, and the Seine,
each and all had a space, a glass, and a gilt frame;
not to mention one hundred and thirty-seven casts
which filled the intervals and corners. A fearful uproar
sounded from beyond the gallery.
“That is Djavid’s mother groaning, Lola cursing,
the Wives and Eunuchs laughing, and Kunu exercising
,” explained the Wise Woman. She smacked a
black dwarf who tried to bar her passage, took a key
from her chain, and unlocked a great door. There inside
opened a wondrous scene. A vast room, furnished in
gracious remembrance of a hundred styles, was full of
lights and persons, moaning, weeping, writhing, dancing
, laughing, talking, and cutting capers. It was an
epitome of the world, 1915 5. Nothing less than the Wise
Woman with a Stranger might have commanded
attention there. Even so, since the two newcomers
walked unconcernedly past the various groups these
merely ceased their noise for a moment, and then fell
again to their dolours or diversions. The Wise Woman
led straight towards the divan where Lola, lovely as the
sky when a storm is about spent, leaned her brow upon
her hand. She looked up at the stranger, looked deep
You will introduce me as-come, be clever !”
in her eyes, and nodded a welcome: “You, at least,
are no fool,” she said, and tears of gratitude welled in
her open eyes. “I am so furious and weary ! Who are
you, and where do you come from?”
“I am the guest of Fatima, a wanderer of her kind.
I have fled from England. My name is Shamane. I
like to be questioned by women.”
“It is a way of learning what not to tell,” replied
Lola. “I believe that is half the secret of my old
Fatima. ”
Fatima, in fact, turned the conversation. “My
friend has brought you a present,” she said, offering
a little red book entitled “Views of Brighton.”
“Have you seen
all this? Yes? Of course, you have ! Look at these
women sitting beside the men ! Kunu, Kunu ! tell
Kunu to come and look.” Kunu came up in her red
trousers, shouldering her sword for a moment. She
examined the Views, pursing her lips and lifting her
dark, meeting eyebrows. ‘‘Do you think that we are
any better off than these Christians?” she burst out
jealously. “We are neither better nor worse ! If the
English come here, they will snatch your veil off and
make you sit beside them like that. But I shall kill
them first, like the Englishwomen kill our noble allies.
I shall form a regiment of Kunus.”
“GO away, bad girl,” said Lola, indignantly.
“Shamane, how did you get on among these people?”
“ By always saying everything agreeable to them
and everything disagreeable about them. ’ ’
“But that is as it is here What was your wanderer's
vow, Shamane?”
“Never to know exactly where I was going; never to
know what I should wear; never to be seen abroad by
daylight. This was all very easy in England. The
women of fashion there lead just such a life as mine
was. ”
“And I always know where I am going, and what I
shall wear; and I can only be seen abroad by daylight.
I should be equally bored either way, Shamane. Is
there really no pleasure anywhere? Why has Djavid
gone to war?”
“Ah, I like that !” exclaimed Lola.
“For the pleasure of it.”
“What a humbug he is ! A while ago he suppressed
the sale of drugs because they endangered a few
people’s health. Now, look, nothing but war, death,
disease, famine, everywhere. I am weary of this
world, Shamane. And so are these-the old mother
there, those dice-players, those dancers, and Kunu herself
, whom hate only gives an appearance of hope.
What more resigned than that group of women playing
with ruin for the mere colour of love? And you,
my old fool Fatima, my Wise Woman, you can invent
me no more futures! Shamane has come to see me
die. ”
The door at the far end of the room was opened, and
there came in a resplendent eunuch followed by a slave
carrying a bundle of silks on his shoulder and a box in
one hand. He came forward, while the crowd jumped
up and followed, pressing around him and chattering.
In front of pale Lola’s divan, he bowed low, kneeled
down, smiling, and opened the box and bundle. The
box was full of jewels, and the crowd exclaimed
greedily
“From whom is this?” asked Lola; “who is the
thief ?”
No thief, blessed one ! The gentlemen bought, and
wish to sell.” Lola took a case on which was printed
“Idealism, Berlin.”
She clutched the necklace which lay inside and broke
it, and threw the bits to the crowd. She tore the silks
into ribbons. She beat the eunuch with the broken
cases. “For your trade, lying cheap-jack, you steal my
life. I die,” she cried; “farewell, fools ! Shamane,
Shamane. . .”
“Take your time,” said the stranger-“so many
people are dying suddenly just now.”
Lola laughed, and replied-“They went out shooting,
and they never came back !”-and she died. Amid the
l
,
hullaballoo the stranger left. If she, off the spot, made
no reflections or attempt to philosophise on the incalculable
character of tag, rag, and bobtail, human thoughts,
words, actions, and destinies-how should I on the
spot, reflect or attempt to philosophise?
ALICE MORNING.