Man and Manners
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
Wednesday.--If as I thought yesterday, men are to
blame for the low Kultur of the cafe women are surely
to blame for the usual impropriety of such places. ’They
forget that a cafe is an institution neither for men nor
for women, but for both ; and hence that, while Equality
and Camaraderie are all very well for men and even for
women separately (though women do not often seem
capable of it), both mottoes are out of place on the walls
of a cafe There (I mean in a cafe propriety I mean
what is proper to be done) is as strict (I mean it ought
to be), as elsewhere, where men and women assemble.
And not, oh not, because propriety is merely a merit in
itself (like clean linen, as Emerson said!, but several
times more, because it is the best defence for both men
and women-and particularly women, as needing it
more ! Conventions and taboos designed to protect
the decent woman from the indecent man (and vice
versa as well in these days) won’t easily take off and
on like dolls’ clothes. Of course, there are occasions
when the conventions can be set aside, and when, in
fact, they ought to be; but such occasions are rare, and,
even then, it requires almost genius to do it safely. The
golden rule is that the rule is usually golden. And the
rule is to obey convention unless there is something
much better to be done. But in a cafe there is usually
nothing better to be done! Women at a cafe however,
seem very often to imagine that the conventions
are suspended there at their sole whim. In a single
evening I made a catalogue of their crimes as follows.
Item : a woman came in and threw her uninvited arms
found a man’s uuoffending neck. Item : a woman, sitting
near me, got as agitated as a surf-boat when a
man she knew came in and sat by another woman. The
rest of the evening she spent in screwing her neck
round like a giraffe’s to look at him. Item : other .
women extinguished themselves, in my opinion, by (a)
pretending an interest in a man’s shop when it was
obviously the shopkeeper who interested them ; (b)
addressing the waiters like business men ; (c) permitting
men to approach and leave them hatted. The only
conclusion possible is that such women want men much
more than men want such women. Rather than go
without, they will put up with any man of any manners.
Rut to be incapable of being alone is to be incapable of
good company. In general, neither a man nor a
woman is fit for a cafe if they must be there or perish
of ennui. Yet I note that the women to whom a cafe
is indispensable at any price think treasures of themselves
: one, because she shared a studio in Chelsea
with a girl who wore a painting pinafore; another, because
she could moan by heart the dirges of Yeats a
third, because she could paddle an oar (without feathering)
in an argument. The he worst of it is that all this
reacts on men’s manners, which, from bad, sink to
worse. First, men omit the usual courtesies; then
women do the same; until finally the whole cafe is for
prodigal sons and daughters to feed!
Thursday.-The more women let themselves go the
more men let them go !
Friday.-“Mr. Jones will be in presently, said Mrs.
Jones to me yesterday. Little fishes ! Why not “the
master” and have done with it, Mrs. Jones? Really,
women mustn’t import their kitchen manners into the
drawing-room. Visitors object to their hostess treating
them like servants-which she is certainly doing
by referring to her husband as Mr. Brown” instead of
“my husband.” Besides, Mr. Brown himself has no
reason to thank his wife for mistering him over before
her guests. It is only the habitually unrespected man
who needs to have his mistery insisted on in all times
and places. Is Mr. Brown’s dignity so sickly a flower
that Mrs. Brown fears to kill it outright by the use of
so easy a term as “my husband”? Doesn’t Mrs.
Brown know that the only people who are really anxious
to be called ladies and gentlemen are those who live in
fear of not being mistaken for such? But I mustn’t
talk as though Mrs. Brown represents the only class of
these offenders. Has a Bishop’s wife never informed
you that “THE BISHOP is indisposed’’ ?-or Lady
Goldsuds announced to you that SIR Thomas is out of
Town all the world as though they, or you, were
servants ! And don’t we all know husbands who refer
to Mrs. Brown, Lady Goldsuds,” etc. ? Wife, wife,
“my wife,” Sir Thomas, as you hope to be washed of
your father’s soap !
shouted at Joan last night. “What’s the use?” growled
Joan. “You wouldn’t understand. Men can’t !” Here,
snapshot as it was, I saw one of the perennial complaints
of men and women against each other-on
woman’s side, man’s inability to see from the woman’s
point of view ; on man’s woman’s silence. To take the
man’s case. Women won’t play fair in an argument,
men always complain. You can’t have it out with a
wornan as you can with a man. She won’t talk. There
she sits gloomily nursing a mouse into a mountain, a
moment’s disagreement into a week’s quarrel. Nothing
really has happened, yet everything is suddenly hopelessly
wrong. Why is it? Men argue out their differences
of opinion with one another. Why don’t women
discuss theirs with men? “Why?” Joan took up the
woman’s case; “DO you think Harry would waste his
time trying to explain a joke to a man without a sense
of humour? Then, what’s the use of my
putting the woman’s case to a man without a sense of
woman? It’s hopeless Harry neither sees the
woman’s side, wants to see it, nor even suspects that
there is one. Whatever goes wrong between us, his
only concern is, to be able to justify his behaviour in the
sight of men. Heavens! how unfair men are to
women !” S’pose so, said I ; but doesn’t that partly
come about because women are so unfair to each other?
You’re quite right when you say that in man’s treatment
of woman he is always imagining himself before
a jury of men. Has he behaved so that a panel of these
almighty beings would acquit him? That is his one
anxiety, Has he acted justly in the eyes of men?-
not women-their judgment doesn’t count. - And why ?
For one thing, surely, because he has nothing to fear
from it. That’s where I blame women. If they were
sex-loyal enough to found an institution similar to the
Trade Union that exists among men for the protection
of man against the wiles of woman, things would be
very different. As it is, thanks (for nothing) to the
spirit of rivalry among them, women are like a city
divided against itself, and they fall at each other’s
hands. As like as not one will turn man’s evidence
against another merely to gain the goodwill of the
criminal man in the case. So a woman has nothing to
gain by an appeal to a court of women, and the only
approval coveted by both sexes is Man’s! Defect of
brain, m’fears, is another reason put forward to explain
this silence of women. Apprehending that she will be
worsted in an argument with a man, a woman falls
back on her most effective weapon-Silence ! Thenworse
and worse--annoyed with herself for her inability
to fight on the Same plane as her opponent, alas! she
sulks, or becomes malignant! Dear, dear! what a
horrid state of affairs ! Well personally, I blame both
men and women for it. In the interest of general justice
men should try to acquire this sense of woman
(which Joan analogised with a sense of humour), and it
is only by talking to women that they will learn it.
Women again, should do their best to help men to
acquire it, by at least trying to put the woman’s point
of view before them. Necessity gives power, and if
women would only begin to talk I wouldn’t be a bit
surprised should they discover, after a trial or two
(patience, please, men !) that they could ! Indeed, they
might find that all the time they had been playing- rabbit
to his weasel. Had they but known it, they could have
outstripped the brute any day! At any rate, I’m sure
Saturday.--‘‘ For God’s sake Talk ! ” Harry
Not he !
their anger would decrease as they found themselves
giving dignified vent to it ; and, anyhow, any expression
is better than repression in such a case. When men
can no longer complain that the last method of finding
out why a woman is silent is to ask her, a profitable
milestone will have been passed in the education of both
sexes. Meanwhile, silence is bad manners. We all
know what happened to us as children when we refused
to speak when spoken to-OW !