Man and Manners.
An OCCASIONAL DIARY.
Monday.--Women haven’t many privileges, but one is
surely the choice of shaking hands with a new acquaintance.
A bow is only the polite acknowledgment of an
introduction, but a handshake is the formality of it. The
bow, in other words, is only a christening process; but
by the latter you are confirmed into the faith of friendship.
The man, therefore, who forces a woman to
shake hands on introduction-you can’t very well
overlook a hand jutting out at you like a policeman’s-is
robbing her of her electoral right on quite an important
point. For once having shaken hands with a man, by
intention or inattention, she is committed not only to
acknowledge him in future, but to meet him on the footing
of intimacy a handshake establishes-a footing
which, left to her choice, she very possibly would never
have brought about. Moreover, the man who offends
in this way offends as much again as the woman who
breaks the same convention. Socially, women take
precedence of men, and thus the man is presuming to
offer his hand to his social superior; while the woman,
it may be urged, is at worst only waiving her privilege
in condescending to be friendly (or, as I should call it,
familiar at sight. To the man who thinks it still
doesn’t matter, I will ask aloud what others will ask of
him without words. Is he in such a hurry to shake
hands because he thinks it well to strike before you have
time to be on your guard? and claims sanctuary in
extenuation of future crimes? Does he apprehend that
if you knew him you would certainly not shake hands
with him? Is he so short of friends that he needs must
lose no time in snatching them? Does he mistake this
breach of convention for jollity and naturalness ?
Wednesday-Women may flatter themselves that at
the end of the war they will have earned the nation’s
thanks by their war-work; and when disappointed they
will doubtless reproach men with the usual ingratitude.
Not man, however, but woman herself will be to blame,
for women are accompanying their war-services with
manners that will surely forfeit their expected reward.
Take, for instance, the manners of the khaki woman.
The other day I met one--khaki from head to heel, cane
under arm, lurching Adelphi stride to boot-swaggering
up Tottenham Court Road and creating a wake of
anything but gratifying comment. Another day, a whole
platoon of women might have been seen holding up the
traffic while they marched uselessly down Piccadilly, the
drum-majoress twirling her staff with the finesse of a
practised moustache-hand-horrid sight ! A man drew
me an unamusing picture of a Field Ambulance Reserve
he had seen on Church Parade. He imitated the way
the Major or Admiral, or whatever she called herself
(nothing, it seems, to what others called her !) bestrode
the trembling earth like a Colossus. “Companyshun,”
she roared, like a bull in a china shop. Then
Joan declares she has seen khaki women come into a
restaurant, hang up their hats and pull up their trou-er,
stock-I mean socks--before sitting down ! And a
field-piece of personal observation in a Hospital Unit
shows me that other than patriotic purposes hide under
a spreading khaki coat. Men’s khaki is to conceaI
them, so I’m told. Women’s is to attract? But
women are becoming imitation men. And, really, I
believe were men to go hopping on one leg, women
would amputate in fashion. For where the limelight is
there must woman be also. I thought in my innocence
that women’s tact would lead to better sense : particularly
as in recent years they have been declaiming
electrocutionally their own superiority, and announcing a
new heaven from their advent into utility. Yet, the
first thing they doodle-do (I mean do do) is to adopt
man’s attire, deeming it an honour, it seems, to wear
the uniform of the late despised. But much good it
does them. I would wager that half the unwelcome to
women’s arrival in industry is the sight they presentand
no wonder-such objicks in men’s clothing! Great
Britain ! those peaked caps of girl shop-porters ! A chef
doesn’t wear a woman’s hat because he is doing a
woman’s work. No taking on the garment with the
jab ! Surely the designers of feminine frills and
fantasies could, at request, design becoming feminine
uniforms-if uniforms they must be! For if the doing
of men’s work involves the adoption of men’s manners
and even of their costume, how, please, shall we
discover the superiority of women’s ways? and how,
please, are we to benefit by men’s supersession? The
other day a Suffrage paper billed (but not cooed) it
forth that the woman who casts a shell can cast a vote;
or, in other words, can decide if, when, and at whom
the shell is to be cast. Nonsense ! At least, so the world
will say, until women prove by their way of working
that they can dabble in man’s mud without themselves
becoming man-muddy. The hands that rocked the
cradle will have lost their cunning to rule the world, and
the shells they cast will be boomeringues! No, nogood
manners are a condition of the acceptance of good
work-and in particular in the case of women, whose
road to success in work is lined on both sides with
sharpshootipnrge judices, And are we not at war ’gainst
the effects of low Kultur? (Boooo !) Then does it not
behove us to extirpate the beams from our own eyes?
Physicians--I mean women doctors-heal thyselves !
We expected better taste from you, the Grand
Conservatoorsf Good Manners. And better taste means better
work. If one volunteer is worth ten pressmen, one
useful act performed with grace is worth ten without it.
There is a Provost Marshal vested with supreme power
to enforce proper manners among soldiers. Then, since
of equal urgency, why not a W.C.P.M.G.M.W.W.W,
-a Women’s Council (NO, NOT a Provost Marshal,
please!) for the Propagation and Maintenance of Good
Manners among Women War Workers ? Women are
on trial. I will say it again-Women are on trial, and
on their own evidence! On the impression they are
now creating hangs their sentence. Is it to be penal
servitude, or first-class treatment ? Because in the
general confusion of war-time, women now strut
unmobbed in their khaki, don’t let them imagine they will
always be allowed to behave as they now presume on the
popularity of a khaki coat to do. Not a bit of it, women
-your khaki manners will be used against you. Then
of what avail your war-work? The nation’s gratitude?
Men’s admiration? No, a thousand times-it will have
profited you nothing. Ridicule and worse-contempt
and neglect-will be your portion. And once again
women will have been guilty of suicide, and---worse
again-of sororicide.
Thursday.-Why on earth are you always having
dinner with George? I asked Norah the other day. I
don’t see much in him. That’s just it, said Norah;
neither do I-which leaves me perfectly free to enjoy
my dinner. You see, if you like a man awfully, you
spend all your time thinking how nice he is; you can’t
eat a thing. For instance, when I’m with---well, never
mind whom--but when I’m with him, I feel that actually
I neither want nor need to eat. S’pse ’m feeding on
him, or something ! Then, in the case of the man you
can’t stand, you keep thinking how loathsome he is,
and, again, can’t eat in consequence. The few times I
had dinner with J. J. his manners simply murdered my
appetite. But George I neither like nor dislike
sufficientlyf or him to disturb me in any way. Enfin !
You’re a wretch, Norah, said I : but there must be truth
in your wretchedness, for I’ve observed that with George
you gorge-poor George! And now I know why it is.
The things he says are just amusing enough to accompany
without diverting; while his manners are nicely
fitted to every dinner emergency. George, in fact, is a
perfect little Laodicean, as a good diner should be.
Anyhow, settled Norah, he makes a good dinner!