Bavarian Babies

She was just beginning to walk along a little white
road with tall black trees on either side, a little road
that led to nowhere and where nobody walked at all,
when a hand gripped her shoulder, shook her, slapped
her ear.
“Oh, oh, don’t stop me,” cried the Child-Who-Was-
Tired. “ Let me go.’’
“ Get up, you good for nothing brat,” said a voice,
“get up and light the oven or I’ll shake every bone out
of your body.”
With an immense effort she opened her eyes, and saw
the Frau standing by, the baby bundled under one arm.
The three other children who shared the same bed with
the Child-Who-Was-Tired accustomed to brawls, slept
on peacefully. In a corner of the room the Man was
fastening his braces.
“ What do you mean by sleeping like this the whole
night through-like a sack of potatoes? You’ve let the
baby wet his bed twice.”
She did not answer, but tied her petticoat string,
buttoned on her plaid frock with cold, shaking fingers.
“ There, that’s enough. Take the baby into the
kitchen with you, and heat that cold coffee on the spirit
lamp for the master, and give him the loaf of black
bread out of the table drawer. Don’t guzzle it yourself
or I’ll know. ”
The Frau staggered across the room, flung herself on
to her bed, drawing the pink bolster round her
shoulders.
It was almost dark in the kitchen. She laid the baby
on the wooden settle, covering him with a shawl, then
poured the coffee from the earthenware jug into the
saucepan. and cet it on the spirit lamp to boil.
“ I’m sleepy,” nodded the Child-Who-Was-Tired,
kneeling on the floor and splitting the damp pine log.;
into little chips “ That’s why I’m not awake.”
The oven took a long time to fight. Perhaps it was
cold, like herself, and sleepy. . . . Perhaps it had
been dreaming of a little white road with bIack trees on
either side, a little road that led to nowhere.
Then the door was pulled violently open and the Man
strode in.
“ Here. what are you doing, sitting on the floor? ”
he shouted. “ Cive me my coffee. I’ve got to be off.
Ugh ! You haven’t even washed over the table.”
She sprang to her feet, poured his coffee into an
enamel cup. gave him bread and a knife, then, taking
I wash rag from the sink, smeared over the black
linoleumed table.
Swine of a day-swine’s life,” mumbled the Man.,
sitting by the table and staring out of the window at
the bruised sky which seemed to bulge heavily over the
dull land. He stuffed his mouth with bread and then
swilled it down with the coffee.
The Child drear a pail of water, turned up her sleeves,
frowning the while at her arms, as if to scold them for
being so thin, so much like little, stunted twigs, and
began to mop over the floor.
“ Stop sousing about the water while I’m here,”
grumbled the Man. “ Stop the baby snivelling ; it’s
been going on like that all night.”
The Child gathered the baby into her lap and sat
rocking him.
Ts-ts-ts,” she said. “ He’s cutting his eye
teeth, that’s what makes him cry so. And dribble-I
never seen a baby dribble like this one.” She wiped
his mouth and nose with a corner of her skirt. “ Some
babies get their teeth without you knowing it,” she
went on, ‘‘ and some take on in this way all the time.
I once heard of a baby that died, and they found all
its teeth in its stomach.”
The Man got up, unhooked his cloak from the back
of the door, and flung it round him.
“
“
“
“
There’s another corning,” said he.
What--a tooth ! “ exclaimed the Child, startled for
the first time that morning out of her dreadful heaviness,
and thrusting her finger into the baby’s mouth.
“ No,’’ he said grimly, “ another baby. Now, get
on with your work; it‘s time the others. got up for
school.”
She stood a moment quite silently, hearing his heavy
steps on the stone passage, then the gravel walk, and
finally the slam of the front gate.
“ Another baby ! Hasn’t she finished having them
yet? ” thought the Child. “ Two babies getting eye
teeth-two babies to get up for in the night-two babies
to carry about and wash their little piggy clothes ! ”
She looked with horror at the one in her arms, who,
seeming to understand the contemptuous loathing of
her tired glance, doubled his fists, stiffened his body,
and began violently screaming-.
l s-ts-ts.” She laid him’ on the settle and went
back to her floor washing. He never ceased crying for
a moment, but she got quite used to it and kept time
with her broom. Oh, how tired she was ! Oh, the
heavy broom handle and the burning spot just at the
back of her neck that ached so, and a funny little flutter-,
ing feeling just at the back of her waistband, as though
something was going to break.
The clock struck sis. She set a pan of milk in the
oven, and went into the nest room to wake and dress
the three chiIdren. Anton and Hans lay together in
mutual attitudes of amity which certainly never existed
out of their sleeping hours. Lena was curled up, her
knees under her chin, only a straight, standing-up pigtail
of hair showing above the bolster.
“ Get up,” cried the Child, speaking in a voice of
immense authority, pulling off the bedclothes and giving
the boys sundry pokes and digs. “ I’ve been calling
you this last half hour. It’s late, and I’ll tell on you
if you don’t get dressed this minute.”
Anton awoke sufficiently to turn over and kick Hans
on a tender part, whereupon Hans pulled Lena’s pigtail
until she shrieked for her mother.
“ Oh, do he quiet,” whispered the Child. “ Oh, do
get up and dress. You know what will happen. There
- I'll help you.”
Rut the warning came too late. The Frau got out
of bed, walked in a determined fashion into the kitchen:
returning with a bundle of twigs in her hand fastened
together with a strong cord. One by one she laid the
children across her knee and severely beat them,
expending a final burst of energy on the Child-Who-
Was-Tired, then returned to bed, with a comfortable
sense of her maternal duties in good working order for
the day. Very subdued, the three allowed themselves
to be dressed and washed by the Child, who even laced
the boys’ boots, having found through experience that
if left to themselves they hopped about for at least five
minutes to find a comfortable ledge for their foot, and
then spat on their hands and broke the bootlaces.
While she gave them their breakfast they became
uproarious, and the baby would not cease crying.
When she filled the tin bottle with milk, tied on the
rubber tit, and., first moistening it herself, tried with
little coaxing words to make him drink, he threw the
bottle on to the floor and trembled all over.
“ Eye-teeth ! ” shouted Mans, hitting Anton over the
head with his empty cup; “he’s getting the evil eyeteeth,
I should say.”
“Smarty !” retorted Lena, poking out her tongue at
him, and then, when he promptly did the same, crying
at the top of her voice, ‘(Mother, Hans is making faces
at me ! ”
“That’s right,” said Hans; ‘‘go on howling, and
when you’re in bed to-night I’ll wait till you’re asleep,
and then I’ll creep over and take a little tiny piece of
your arm and twist and twixt it until-” He leant
over the table, making the most horrible faces at Lena,
not noticing that Anton was standing behind his chair
until the IittIe boy bent over and spat on his brother’.
shaven head.
“
“Oh, weh ! oh, weh ! ”
The Child-Who-Was-Tired pushed and pulled them
apart muffled them into their coats, and drove then
out of the house.

“ Hurry, hurry ! the second bell’s rung,” she urged,
knowing perfectly well she was telling a story, and
rather exulting in the fact. She washed up the breakfast
things, then went down to the cellar to look out
the potatoes and beetroot.
Such a funny, cold place the coal cellar ! With
potatoes banked on one corner, beetroot in an old
candle box, two tubs of Sauer kraut, and a txisted
mass of dahlia roots-that looked as real as though
they were fighting one another, thought the Child.
She gathered the potatoes into her skirt, choosing
big ones with few eyes because they were easier to
peel, and bending over the dull heap in the silent cellar,
she began to nod.
“ Here, you, what are you doing down there? ” cried
the Frau from the top of the stairs. “The baby’s fallen
off the settle, and got a bump as big as an egg over
his eye. Come up ‘ere and I’ll teach you ! ”
‘‘ It wasn’t me-it wasn’t me ! ” screamed the Child,
beaten from one side of the hall to the other, so that
the potatoes and beetroot rolled out of her skirt.
The Frau seemed to be as big as a giant, and there
was a certain heaviness in all her movements that was
terrifying to anyone so small.
“Sit in the corner, and peel and wash the vegetables
and keep the baby quiet while I do the washing.”
Whimpering she obeyed, but as to keeping the baby
quiet that was impossible His face was hot, while
little beads of sweat stood all over his head, while he
stiffened his body and cried. She held him on her
knees, with a pan o f cold water beside her for the
cleaned vegetables and the “duck’s bucket ” for the
pealings
“Ts-ts-ts ! ” she crooned, scraping and boring:
these’s going to be another soon, and you can’t both
keep on crying. Why don’t you go to sleep baby? I
would, if I were you. I’ll tell you a dream. Once
upon a time there was a little white road-”
She shook back her head, a great lump ached in her
throat and then the tears ran down her face on to the
vegetables.
“There’s no good,” said the Child, shaking them
away. “Just stop crying until I’ve finished this,
baby, and I’ll walk you up and down.”
But by that time she had to peg out the washing for
the Frau. A wind had sprung up. Standing on tiptoe.
in the yard, she almost felt she would be blown away.
There was a bad smell coming from the ducks’ coop,
that was half full of manure water, but away in the
meadow she saw the grass blowing like little green
hairs. And she remembered having heard of a child
who had once played for a whole day in just such a
meadow with real sausage and beer for her dinnerand.
not a little bit of tiredness. Who had told her
that story? She could not remember, and yet it was
so plain.
The wet clothes flapped in her face as she pegged
them: danced and jigged on the line, bulged out and
twisted. She walked hack to the house with lagging
steps, looking longingly at the grass in the meadow.
“
“ What must I do now, please? ” she said.
“ Make the beds and hang the baby’s mattress out.
of the window, then get the waggon and take him for
a little walk .along the road. In front of the house,
mind-where I can see you. Don’t stand there,
gaping ! Then come in when I call you and help me
cut up the salad.”
When she had made the beds the Child stood and
looked at them. Gently she stroked a pillow with her
hand, and then, just for one moment, let her head
rest there. Again the smarting lump in her throat, the
stupid tears that fell and kept on falling as she dressed
the baby and dragged the little waggon up and down
the road.
‘ A man passed, driving a bullock waggon. He wore
a long queer feather in his hat, and whistled as he
passed. Two girls with bundles on their shoulders
came walking out o f the village--one wore a red handkerchief
about her head and one a blue. They were
laughing and holding each other by the hand. Then
the sun pushed by a heavy fold of grey cloud and
spread a warm yellow light over everything.
“ Perhaps,” thought the Child-Who-Was-Tired “ if I
walked far enough up this road I might come to a
little white one, with tall black trees on either sidea
little road-”
“Salad, salad :” cried the Frau’s voice from the
house.
Soon the children came home from school, dinner
was eaten, the Man took the Frau’s share of pudding
as well as his own, and the three children seemed to
smear themselves all over with whatever they ate.
Then more dish-washing and more cleaning and baby
minding. So the afternoon dragged coldly through.
Old Frau Grathwohl come in with a fresh piece of
pig’s flesh for the Frau, and the Child listened to them
gossiping together.
‘‘ Frau Manda went on her ‘ journey to Rome ’ last
night, and brought back a daughter. How are you
feeling ?”
‘‘I was sick twice this morning,” said the Frau.
“My insides are all twisted up with having children
too quickly.”
“ I sec you’ve got a new help,” commented old
Mother Grathwohl.
“Oh, dear Lord ”---the Frau lowered her voice--
don’t you know her? She’s the free-born onedaughter
of the waitress at the railway station. They
found her mother trying to squeeze her head in the
wash-hand jug, and the child’s half silly.”
“Ts-ts-ts ! ” 1%-hiriperedt he“ freeborn “ one to the
baby.
As the day drew in the Child-Who-Was-Tired did not
know how to fight her s!eepiness any longer. She was
afraid to sit down or stand still. As she sat at supper
the Man and the Frau seemed to swell t o a n immense
size as she watched them and then become. smaller
than dolls, with little voices that seemed to come from
outside the window. Looking at the baby, it suddenly
had two heads and then no head. Even his
crying made her feel worse. When she thought of the
nearness of bedtime she shook all over with excited
joy. Rut as eight o’clock approached there was the
sound of wheels on the road, and presently in came a
party of friends to spend the evening.
Then it was-
“ Put on the coffee.”
“ Bring me the sugar tin.”
“Carry the chairs out of the bedroom.”
“Set the table.”
And, finally, the Frau sent her into the nest room to
keep the baby quiet.
There was a little piece of candle burning in the
enamel bracket. As she walked up and down she saw
her great big shadow on the wall, like a grown-up
person with a grown-up baby. Whatever would it look
like when she carried two babies so !
“ Ts-ts-ts ! Once upon a time she was walking
along a little white road, with oh ! such great big black
trees on either side.”
“ Here, you ! ” called the Frau’s voice, “bring me
my new jacket from behind the door.”. And as she
took it into the warm room one of the women said,
“She looks like an owl. Such children are seldom
right in their heads.”
“ Why don’t you keep that baby quiet? ” said the
Man, who had just drunk enough beer to make him
feel very brave and master of his house.
“If you don’t keep that baby quiet you’ll know why
later on.”
They burst out laughing as she stumbled back into
the bedroom.
“ I don’t believe Holy Mary could keep her quiet,”
she murmured. “Did Jesus cry like this when he was
little? If I was not so tired perhaps I could do it; but
the baby just knows that I want to go to sleep. And
there is going to be another one.”
She flung the baby on the bed, and stood looking
at him with terror.
From the nest room there came the jingle of glasses
and the warm sound of laughter.
And she suddenly had a beautiful, marvellous idea.
She laughed for the first time that day, and clapped
her hands.
398 THE NEW A G E FEBRUAR24Y, 1910
‘”Ts-ts-ts ! ” she said. ‘‘ Lie there, silly one; you
will go to sleep. You’II not cry any more or wake
up in the night. Funny, little, ugly baby.”
He opened his eyes, and shrieked loudly at the sight
of the Child-Who-Was-Tired. From the next room she
heard the Frau call out to her.
“One moment-he is almost asleep,” she cried.
And then, gently, smiling, on tiptoe, she brought
the pink bolster from the Frau’s bed and covered the
baby’s face with it, pressing with all her might as he
struggled, “like a duck with its head off, wriggling-,”
she thought.
Softer the cries-faint-then silence.
She heaved a long sigh, then fell back on to the floor
and was walking along a little white road with tall
black trees on either side, a little road that led to
nowhere, and where nobody walked at all-nobody
at all.