THE WHITE SLAVE ACT.
Sir,--Hitherto the evidence upon which the flogging Bill
was promoted has been wropt in mystery. Frightful horrors
were hinted at and the hints were almost sworn to by all
sorts of pastors and masters in Government and by
women. NOW that the cases are beginning to come into
the courts and to he detailed in the Press, the public can
examine the evidence for themselves. Presumably the
strongest and not the weakest cases from the police point
of view have heen advanced and what do they amount to
-cock-and-bull stories that nobody with any experience
of life could hear without a grin if the thing were not
serious--if there were not magistrates anxious to decree
the lash? Men are being flogged on evidence a b u t as
suspect as evidence could possibly be. On the bare word
of two prostitutes a man named Frederick Jackson, a very
poor man was given 25 lashes, which means really 200
wounds. In another case appeal was refused in the face
of the prison doctor’s testimony that the man was too ill
to be flogged.
Where men are in a good position they can, as in the
case of the woman named Farrow, escape the net laid for
them-but a poor man has not much of a chance. Nor has
a poor woman. I think that the “Times” was about the
Only newspaper to publish a report of the charge brought
against another woman by Ethel Maud Driver, assistant
matron at the Homes of Hope, Regent Square. Ethel
Maud testified that she met Flora Johnson in a publichouse,
had several drinks with her, and they went home
together. Afterwards they went out on the street together,
where Flora accosted men who treated them both to
more drinks. Upon Flora accosting the last man, Ethel
Maud implored him to save her. The kind gentleman
called the police-and Flora stands remanded with attempting
to procure Ethel Maud, who gives her age as
twenty-eight !
I rejoiced to read Mrs. E. Nesbit’s witty and merciless
reconstruction in the “Times,” February 20, of the Caxton
Bazaar lady’s tale. One might censure the editor for insulting
the intelligence of his readers, but considering that
the Bill which became an Act on the strength- of such
yarns privately circulated, undoubtedly owed its passage
to the shrieking support of Bishops, Lords, Commons,
Mrs. Mackirdy and Mr. Willis, most of whom read, and
write for, the “Times,” perhaps the intelligence of these
people was never considered. In case it is supposed that
the Bazaar Horror is the largest camel that the white
slavery imbeciles will swallow, allow me to quote the following
letter from the columns of Mr. Shaw’s latest platform,
“The Awakener,” also advertised every day in
the “Daily Herald.” The date of the letter is February
the First, 1913, year of Our Lord, and on the same page
appeared a message to “The Awakener” from the Venerable
Albert Basil Orme Wilberforce, D.D., Archdeacon of
Westminster : “All success be yours.”
To the Editor of “The Awakener.”
Dear S i r , - I should like through the columns of your
splendid paper to put young girls on their guard against
a favourite dodge of the fiends in human shape who prowl
in our midst, preying on girlish innocence. A girl should
in no circumstances go to the assistance of a person run
over by a motor-’bus. The White Slave Trader does not
hesitate to throw himself under the wheels of any passing
vehicle in order to get in touch with a likely victim.
Similarly I know cases where these men have set their
own houses on fire and suffered themselves to be slowly
roasted in order to attract girls’ attention and enlist their
sympathies
Trusting that you will put girls on their guard against
these devilish devices.-I remain, yours faithfully,
Jan. 23, 1913. E. B. FRANCIS.
People who can have their legs pulled like this are
simply feeble-minded : yet to satisfy these, the Government
has turned us into a flogging nation. That Act, an
Act for the relief of flagellants, fools, and vixens, ought
to be repealed . * * * BEAT RICE HASTINGS