Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
Friday.--Folk’s manners is getting worse ; the more
you does fur ’em, the more you may do, with never
a please or a thank you, said my ’bus conductor,
turning away a soft question with an answer of wrath
-which proves my contention that bad manners
usually provoke worse. Of course I don’t expect the
final judgment from a ’bus conductor, nor do I accept
his as such, but there’s no doubting that these officials
in popular places could a tale unfold of the public’s
manners. I believe the average man comes into the
official world prepared to be civil and obliging; but
when a ’bus passenger’s only method of address is at
the point of the umbrella, and a laden lady presumes
on her gentler sex to plant an out-size travelling trunk
on a conductor’s foot without a “May I, please?” or
“Would you mind ?”--well, even a ’bus conductor will
skid. Look at some women’s behaviour to shopassistants.
(What an example to set to a class they
would certainly consider beneath their tea-service !) No
wonder if a girl turns the counters on the next meek
customer, and is rude without having been rude to--
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. You may
persuade but you will never frighten people into good
manners. Persuasion works wonders. I ’ve known
even a telephone girl listen when spoken to pleasantly !
Sometimes, of course, the positions are reversed, an
instance being the case of the taxi-driver. His bad
manners are an aboriginal sin. They are undoubtedly
responsible for the bad manners to which the public is
beginning to treat him.
Monday.-One can’t often luxuriate in selfishness
and service at the same time, I told Elsie this morning.
But dress, my dear, supplies the opportunity. Making
the best of one’s appearance is a public duty as well
as a personal pleasure.
It’s about time some one did scold Elsie. She was
buying an evening frock all by herself, when, if I had
my way, she should never go within buying distance of
a shop alone. She’s read all Shaw, but (I mean and),
when it comes to dress, her ideas and taste are those
of’ a schoolboy.
I only want something cheap, she. said. It’s just
for concerts and theatres and things. Really doesn’t
matter a bit what it looks like.
Of course it matters, said I ; if not to yourself, to
others.
Others ! (scornfully).
Well me, and the public in general.
Public-ideal?
Something has !
Fat, and time’s my friend-all right, go on !
Well, but what do you expect to look like in a light
check coat and skirt, red hat and heavy brown boots
Checks are all right for tall women, red
hats for dark ones, and those boots for your brother,
My dear, remember Nietzsche-Women’s genius for
dress indicates their instinct for the secondary role.
Now squeal !
Well, better the secondary than the ridiculous,
anyhow!
But if I choose to tie a can to my own tail-I mean
tailor-
Elsie, you’re hopeless ! You a sociologist, and do
not see that proper dressing is a debt one owes to
society (as well as one’s dressmaker !). I’ll lecture you
stiff ! Dressing should be a compromise between pleasing
yourself and pleasing others, and the secret of
pleasing others is not to attract attention by being
either in advance or arrears of fashion. Make a note
of that, Sister Ann !
Which others, if you please?
We are your
Something’s disagreed with you, my
And so it would with you if you
ideal spectators, and you ought to play up to us.
dear !
had the giftie! Fancy you, fair--
and gloves?
but-
Which am I, please?
You? Oh, the word fashion simply doesn’t apply to
light checks with red fat-I mean, hat. Dress should
be a kind of music for the eyes; well, you’re a piece
of ragtime. Reckitt’s blue ! the look of your collar
fills me with starch !
But, meanwhile, it happens
to keep me warm !
Wasn’t it your Nietzsche who said that no
woman ever catches cold if she knows she is welldressed
?
Well-dressed-furs and satins and furbelows. No
thanks !
Not at all, I said. There’s a line somewhere; and,
anyhow, negligence in dress is as criminal as
sumptuosity.
“A sweet disorder in the dress,” began Elsie.
Sweet !
Well, can’t accuse me of sour grapes, anyway !
Wish I could !
Quoted Elsie-
Poor child, it seems to !
Warm !
Well, come and buy a sweet little
evening frock-black-or black and white, if you like.
For me I neither know nor care
Whether a person ought to wear
A black dress or a white dress.
Black indeed !
So I thought, said I, and in black you won’t he the
objick to mourn over.
Black is dowdy if you like, and expensive into the
bargain, which, by the way, you never get in black.
Either dowdy or expensive, but never both together,
I said. Your cheap black, I own, looks worse than any
colour as a rule, but good black looks better than most
things. The prejudice against black is really against
bad black.
What a fuss about a silly little dress, which I shall
probably only wear at home after all !
All right, Elsie, only I’m telling you what Shaw
can’t-the woman who thinks any old dress will do for
her husband will soon find any other woman will do
for him !
I want it for dinners, not funerals.
Black is comely.
I s’pose you’d like me to dress like Freda.
Freda? Well, it’s a pin to choose between .you.
Freda is outrageous by design! you by neglect. Dress
to her is a competition, the prize in which goes to the
startlingest exception. To you it’s just a blue-stocking
out of atrag-bag. Freda aims at creating the impression
of a beetling individuality-which is all wrong, I
tell her. For either she’s an individuality or she isn’t,
an’ there’s an end of it. No amount of hat will put
or crown what isn’t there. The business of dress isn’t
to display individuality, but to indicate decent society-
Yes, put in Elsie, and look at the pitiful pretensions
of those who don’t belong to it!
Exactly ! Oh, I admit overdoing dress is as offensive
as underdoing it. And, another thing, a young woman
shouldn’t wear an old woman’s clothes.
No danger of Freda’s doing that, my word!
Ah, that was for you, my dear. For the rest (make
another note) the best taste is the conventional taste, the
taste of the moderate fashion-
Moderate-oh, thanks for a crumb at last!
Of course, moderate, said I, and simple, too. Brummell
(you’ve heard of Brummell?) used the severest
simplicity in dress. Only the most ignorant nations
still wear picturesque national costume. The most
civilised and intellectual people, on the contrary, are
conspicuous for their inconspicuous attire. Your
exotics and hangers-on of a profession adopt
characteristiacn d fanciful garbs. Dress, like a perfume,
should steal into the senses without violence.
Oh, wise young judge, how you do bore me!
Tuesday.-Anyone would have thought that with the
stage, the supposed fashion-plate of manners, before
them, theatre-goers would have been kings and queens
of etiquette. Lo and behold, however, the behaviour of
a theatre-audience is at a discount in the mannersmarket.
Take, for an example, the way people will
talk quite audibly in the very mouth of a play; and will
laugh aloud in mid-act if it suits them. When a
soldier gets out of step, he doesn’t draw attention to
his mother’s son by nudging his companion, He rights
himself as privately as possible. And surely when we
are isolated in an ill-timed desire to chatter and giggle,
the proper thing is to nip our monkeys in the bud.
Another monkey-trick is surreptitious sweet-nibbling.
Sweets, like fans, are permissible diversions for an
interval, if you have had nothing since tea, but during
the play itself both should be kept at bay, since neither
can be wielded unseen or unheard, to the annoyance
of our neighbours. Love-making, again, is never a
proper public spectacle off the stage itself. That man
at the theatre last night !-arm round girl, cheek-byjowl
the whole evening. Making love in public is as
bad as quarrelling, and even more ridiculous. It’s
such behaviour that brings love into the comic papers.
Isn’t love too personal a reality to have its banners
flung out like clothes on a line? Intimate relations
are for home service only. The surprising thing is that
if the manners of the audience were imitated by the
actors, the originals would be the first to guffaw.