Conquering the Passions.
WHEN you have passed through Damascus and left
behind the dogs and the trains, you come to the fruit
gardens; and beyond the fruit gardens to unspeakable
spots where refuge all the villains of the town; and
again beyond these to horrid hills and rocks and caves,
scenes of amazing rapines and assassinations. And
far beyond all this is the desert. If you do not care
much where you go, and if you have uncommon means
of travel, say, an aeroplane, or a pair of green silk
wings, you may pass indifferently and deep into the
desert in an hour or two; and you will come to a hermitage
in a rocky oasis beside a tiny fountain which dries
up often and needs to be dug patiently out of the sand.
Syd Hadji lives at the hermitage; and if a mortal might
quench its thirst with its own tears, Syd Hadji would
have no need to live beside a fountain. You might
suppose that a good man who had done seven times the
pilgrimage to Mecca would be as happy as virtuous.
Not at all ! A mortal who has been to Mecca is no
more sure of happiness than one who has merely been
to the Moulin Rouge at Paris.
Really, though, you might suppose that a devotee
of Mecca would be more moved at sudden sight of a
lady very much decolletee, or, let us admit, completely
so, than a devotee of the Moulin Rouge. Not at all !
“Well?” said Syd Hadji, glancing up from his
sunsedt evotions like the other might at dawn have glanced
up from his first edition of “Le Matin” ; and he
continued, calmly, quite as it might have been on the
Boulevard Clichy. “Fair Young Demon, what do you
want ?”
“Water and bread,” replied the Young Demon.
Nonsense !” retorted Syd Hadji. “You mean raki
and roast adder. Help yourself.’’ And he bowed
himselof nce more upon his mat.
“Water !” gasped the Young Demon, bursting into
tears.
Syd Hadji repeated, “Help yourself. ” The Young
Demon staggered away from the door, and looked all
about, went around to the back, found the fountaindrank
and fainted. As she did not return, Syd Hadji
presently, when he had finished his prayers, went to
see what had become of her, and he beheld her lying
in a very natural attitude to a mortal overcome with
heat and thirst. He, however, was about to give thanks
to Allah for the defeat of the demon, properly slain by
pure water, when she stirred, raised herself on her
elbow and greedily drank again.
“God have mercy on my folly !” implored Syd Hadji,
beginning to weep. And he picked up the Young
Demon, carried her into his hermitage, laid her on a
mat, lit a torch, and took water to bathe her temples.
She smiled at him patiently, and bespread her limbs
with her long fair hair.
“You have been robbed,” said Syd Hadji ;“robbers
have attacked your caravan. ” He threw a blanket Over
her.
The Young Demon nodded. He gave her some dried
dates to eat.
“Whose lady are you, thus abandoned on the route
from Damascus?”
“This morning I was the wife of Ismael of Damascus.
Now I am his sole surviving widow, for Ismael is dead,
murdered by robbers, he, his father, his sons, and his
other eleven wives. Wai ! Wai !’’
“The will of Allah be done !” piously rejoined Syd
Hadji, and then his curiosity returned. “But how did
YOU escape? The robbers quarrelled?”
“
The Young Demon nodded : “While they quarrelled
I escaped.”
It really was the only probable story, wherefore, and
besides since Syd Hadji had himself suggested it to
the Young Demon, and would not have accepted any
other, she may scarcely be blamed for re-suggesting it
to him, even although it was not quite true.
“Hadji,” asked the Young Demon, “where is the
end of the Desert?’’
The Hermit- wept. “Child, there is no end. One
goes to Mecca only to return. One returns to Mecca
only to come back. On a day, soon or late, one dies in
the desert. Death is the end of life; but the desert has
no end.”
“But these great rich caravans which start awaywhere
do they go?”
“They go into the desert and, by God’s will, they
return to return again, or they never return-but the
day comes when Death strikes them. And all men die
alone in the desert.” He wept.
“And you live alone. Are you not afraid? Suppose
those robbers should seek me here?”
“Calm yourself. Bad men fear one who lives alone.
I fear only the good and the great. My fate in youth
was to run, a dupe from king to king; my fate in
middle age was to run, a dupe from imaum to imaum;
now that I am old and only set upon the conquest of my
vices, I am not the less mocked of grandee and devotee.
Every caravan which passes here brings me invitations
and presents from those who would smile in their beards
if I were to go.”
“How this world is alike everywhere !” exclaimed. the
Young Demon.
”What do you know of the world?”
“Ah, true, I only know what a slave may learn from
a succession of masters, Before I became the wife of
Ismael I passed from hand to hand. I won grace from
my first mistress by my sweet singing. A brutal old
man obtained me next; him I conquered by flattery.
Next I was in the power of haughty grandees whom
I subdued by getting wind of their family secret. Next
a young prince wished to take possession of me; he let
me go for fear lest desire for me should overpower him.
Next I was at the service of a lady who could not profit
by me from pining to death because her husband
preferred the charms of war to her own. Next-but
enough. My life on earth has been a struggle to escape
domination, and it seems to me that all which mortals
seek, or which they seek to avoid, is domination-while
each pretends to love nothing so much as liberty. You,
for instance, you, although you pity me, would not allow
me to abide here if I wished to do so.”
Syd Hadji frowned for the first time in twenty years.
Then he went out into the desert, for the hour of prayer
was come round again.
La illa la illa la ! La illa la illa la ! La illa la illa la !
“Old humbug- !” thought the Young Demon; “he
tells himself that his life is one of self-domination, but
he knows that by staying and praying apart he wangles
those who would wangle him. Nothing but pride
of domination keeps him from rushing back to the city,
for he is weary and weeps.”
“YOU are ill, woman !”
The Young Woman appeared in the act of awakening
from a drowse. “Hadji,” she said, “I dreamed of a
Sultan, a Judge, a Sheikh, a Soldier, a Donkey-Driver,
a Peacock, and a Hermit who all laughed.”
She laughed aloud.
“At what?”
‘‘At nothing. ”
Syd Hadji burst out squeakily laughing!
It was a laughter which expressed very natural
contempt of his kind, including himself, and it was
prolonged. The Young Demon smiled behind her hand.
“Ho, ho!” roared Syd Hadji, suddenly seizing her;
“now let the thorns crackle under the pot !” He spat
upon her. He beat her with a stick the while she
laughed. He .forgot to beat her and satisfied his heart
by dancing and whirling and shouting bon mots loudly
out of his mouth, while she grinned at his witticisms,
Then he fell upon her again, calling her by the names
of sultans, kings, imaums, and others of his ancient
flatterers and spites. He foamed and raged and tore
his .beard and beat his breast, and, in fact, did
everythingw hich Providence has suggested to the instinct
of man as likely to assuage his feelings. Only when
he grew So far reasonable as to take a knife to finish
once and for all with the enemy did the Young Demon
think it about time to abandon her forced and
impromptu role .of personating his pet aversions. She
ran out into the awakening desert and flew away.
The sun rose upon the hermitage and Syd Hadji leaning
He looked
down at himself and seemed about to weep; instead, he
braced up and shook the knife in the direction of his
departed guest. “I have vanquished the devil !” cried Syd
Hadji. But half an hour later he was dutifully giving
the glory to Allah, who no doubt has an indulgent limbo
for imaginations which are opposed to truth. And,
after all, he had let it off against a personage very
capable of defence, whereas the rest of us . . . .
against a rock with a knife in his hand.
ALICE MORNING.