Germans at Meat

Bread soup was placed upon the table.
‘‘ Ah,” said the Herr Kat, leaning upon the table as
he peered into the tureen, “ that is what I need. My
‘ magen ’ has not been in order for several days. Bread
soup, and just the right consistency. I am a good
cook myself “--he turned to the Englishwoman.
“How interesting,” she said, attempting to infuse
just the right amount of enthusiasm into her voice.
“Oh, yes--when one is not married it is necessary.
As for me, I have had all I wanted from women without
marriage.” He tucked his napkin into his collar and
blew upon his soup as he spoke. “ Now at nine o’clock
I make myself an English breakfast, but not much.
Four slices of bread, two eggs, two slices of cold ham,
one plate of soup, two cups of tea--that is nothing to
He asserted the fact so vehemently that Kathleen had
not the courage to refute it.
All eyes were suddenly turned upon her. She felt she
was bearing the burden of the nation’s preposterous
breakfasts--she who drank a cup of coffee while she
buttoned her blouse in the morning.
“ Nothing at all,” cried Herr Hoffman from Berlin.
“ Ach, when I was in England in the morning I used
to eat.”
He turned up his eyes and his moustache, wiping the
soup drippings from his coat and waistcoat.
“ Do they really eat so much? ” asked Fraulein
Stiegelauer. “Soup and baker bread and pig’s flesh,
and tea and coffee and stewed fruit, and honey and eggs
and cold fish and kidneys, and hot fish and liver. All
the ladies eat, too, ,especially the ladies?”
“ Certainly, I myself have noticed it, when I was
living in a hotel in Leicester Square,” cried the Herr
Rat. “ It was a good hotel, but they could not make
tea--now. . . .
“ Ah, that’s one thing I can do,” said Kathleen,
laughing brightly, “ I can make very good tea. The
great secret is to warm the teapot.”
“ Warm the teapot,” interrupted the Herr Rat, pushing
away his soup plate. “ What do you warm the teapot
for? Ha ! Ha ! that’s very good ! One does not
eat the teapot, I suppose? ”
He fixed his cold blue eyes upon Kathleen with an expression
which suggested a thousand premeditated
invasions.
“ So that is the great secret of your English tea?
All you do is to warm the teapot.”
She wanted to say that was only the preliminary
canter, but could not translate it, and so was silent.
The servant brought in veal, with “ sauerkraut ” and
potatoes.
“ I eat sauerkraut with great pleasure,” said the
Traveller from North Germany, “ but now I have eaten
so much of it that I cannot retain it. I am immediately
forced to. . . . .
“ A beautiful day,” cried Kathleen, turning to Fraulein
Stiegelauer. “ Did you get up early? ”
you. ”
“
“
‘’ At five o’clock I walked for ten minutes in the wet
grass. Again in bed. At half-past five I fell asleep,
and woke at seven, when I made an ‘ over-body ’ washing
! Again in bed. At eight o’clock I had a cold
water poultice, and at half-past eight I drank a cup of
mint tea. At nine I drank some malt coffee, and began
my ‘ cure.’ Pass me the sauerkraut, please. You do
not eat it? ”
“ No, thank you. I still find it a little strong.”
“ Is it true,” asked the Widow, picking her teeth
with a hairpin as she spoke, “ that you are a vegetarian
? ”
“ Why, yes ; I have not eaten meat for three years.’’
“ Im-possible ! Have you any family? ”
Kathleen assured herself that it was the heated atmo-
“ No.”
“ There now, you see, that’s what you’re coming to !
Who ever heard of having children upon vegetables?
It is not possible. But you never have large families in
England now; I suppose you are too busy with your
suffragetting. Now I have had nine children, and they
are all alive, thank God. Fine, healthy babies--though
after the first one was born I had to. . . .
sphere which was making her flush.
7 ’
“ How wonderful,” cried Kathleen.
‘’ Wonderful,” said the Widow contemptuously, replacing
the hairpin in the knob which was balanced on
the top of her head. “Not at all ! A friend of mine had
four at the same time. Her husband was so pleased he
gave a supper party and had them placed on the table.
Of course she was very proud.”
“ Germany,” boomed the Traveller, biting round a
potato which he had speared with his knife, “ is the
home of the Family.”
Followed an appreciative silence
The dishes were changed for beef, red currants, and
spinach. They wiped their forks upon black bread and
started again.
How long are you remaining here? ” asked the
Herr Rat.
“ I do not know exactly. I must be back in London
in September. ”
“ Of course you will visit Munchen ? ”
“ I am afraid I shall not have time. You see, it is
important not to break into my ‘ cure.’ ”
“ But you must go to Munchen. You have not seen
Germany if you have not been to Munchen. All the
Exhibitidis, all the Art and Soul life of Germany are in
Munchen. There is the Wagner Festival in August,
and Mozart and a Japanese collection of pictures--and
there is the beer ! You do not know what good beer is
until you have been to Munchen. Why, I see fine
ladies every afternoon, but fine ladies, I tell you, drinking
glasses so high.” He measured a good washstand
pitcher in height, and Kathleen smiled.
“ If I drink a great deal of Munchen beer I sweat so,”
said Herr Hoffman. “ When I am here, in the fields or
before my baths, I sweat, but I enjoy it; but in the town
it is not at all the same thing.”
Prompted by the thought, he wiped his neck and face
with his dinner napkin and carefully cleaned his ears.
A glass dish of stewed apricots was placed upon the
table.
‘‘ Ah, fruit ! ” said Fraulein Stiegelauer, “ that is so
necessary to health. The doctor told me this morning
that the more fruit I could eat the better.”
She very obviously followed the advice.
Said the Traveller : “ I suppose you are frightened of
an invasion, too, eh? Oh, that’s good. I’ve been
reading all about your English play in a newspaper.
Did you see it ? ”
“ Yes,” Kathleen sat upright. “ I assure you we
are not afraid.”
“ Well, then, you ought to be,” said the Herr Rat.
‘‘ You have got no army at all--a few little boys with
their veins full of nicotine poisoning.”
’‘ Don’t be afraid,” Herr Hoffman said. “ We
don’t want England. If we did we would have had
her long ago. We really do not want you.”
He waved his spoon airily, looking across at
“
420 THE NEW AGE MARCH 3, 1910
Kathleen as though she were a little child whom he
would keep or dismiss as he pleased.
“ We certainly do not want Germany,” she said.
“ This morning I took a half bath. Then this afternoon
I must take a knee bath and an arm bath,” volunteered
the Herr Rat, “ then I do my exercises for an
hour, and my work is over. A glass of wine-a couple
of rolls with some sardines. . . .
They were handed cherry cake with whipped cream.
“ What is your husband’s favourite meat? ” asked
“ I really do not know,” answered Kathleen.
“ YOU do not know? How long have you been
“ Three years.”
“ But you cannot be in earnest ! You would not have
kept house as his wife for a week without knowing that
fact. ”
“ I really never asked him, he is not at all particular
about his food.”
A pause. They all looked up at her, shaking their
heads, their mouths full of cherry stones
“ No wonder there is a repetition in England of that
dreadful state of things in Paris,” said the Widow,
folding her dinner napkin, “ how can a woman expect
to keep her husband if she does not know his favourite
food after three years ! ”
“
the widow.
married ? ’ ’
‘‘ Mahlzein ! ”
“ Mahlzein ! ”
Kathleen closed the door after her.