RACE MANAGEMENT.
Sir,-The wealthy and childless Mrs. Pethick-Lawrence
has at last given away the secret of the movement. It is
not equal divorce rights with privilege of life-maintenance
for the wife, not a lien on one’s husband’s wages, not a
say about vaccination, not what some of us have absurdly
hoped it might be-the chance of making England somewhat
less brutal and little more gay (do not ask me, at
least, how I achieved this flight of imagination !). The
secret is--“the dawning in the consciousness of women of
the sense of race-motherhood and of the corresponding
sense of human dignity which expressed itself in the determination
to be Included in the human commonwealth
as a sovereign half of a sovereign people.”
Race-management is the real term. This very Mrs.
Pethick-Lawrence, with all her money, does not even
mother one solitary child ! That would be getting to
work-to adopt a few of the Race and mother them.
Motherhood means having something to do with children,
and it would puzzle anyone to find the children among
the suffragettes ; no; they do not in the least want to
mother the race, but they do yearn to manage it.
The middle-class female probation-officer is managing
poor children into police-courts and thence to reformatories
and other institutions, at the rate of about two
thousand per annum ; children-robbers and pirates, cheeky
children, truants, all sorts of high-spirited little wretches,
come to lifelong grief now, and wherever they are “sentenced”-
there you will find the dingy, stiff-faced female
officer hovering behind the quaking victim. The number
of child-prosecutions goes up, up, up every month.
Race-motherhood, indeed ! Judge Darling recently sentenced
two poor little boys for a raid on a tuck shopfor
the very same offence which he was scarcely done describing
as something like a silly prank in two grammarschool
boys. Where were these race-mothers ? It is
amazing to hear women talk about their “human dignity”
while they have not spirit enough to prevent children
being ruined for stealing sweets ! These race-mothers
manage to make themselves heard on some matters. They
are outraged just now by Mr. Paul Taylor’s reference to
the two “respectable” young men whom the woman Lily
Farrow tried to victimise Compared with her, the men
were honest individuals, and as the world goes, and
always will go, they might be called respectable. Not
a word have I read condemning the woman who hoped
to get them a flogging ! Someone wrote on this case
that “men will have to tidy-up when women get the
vote.” Women might meanwhile tidy-up some of then
OW litter, especially that in their minds ; the rubbish,
for instance, of such nicknames as Sun Yet Sen Pank
hurst, who du believe in freedom’s came as fur away as
Paris is ; or the rubbish of the protest of that “dying
woman,” who was never so fat, be-feathered and flourish
ing in all her career.
Whenever will women have had enough of lying
grandiosity? It has brought us nothing, and has led US
away applauding all the wrong things, the things,
mechanical and brutal, under which we are the first to be
crushed. After women’s militancy came forcible feeding
and flogging. It is unwise to conclude that flogging for
women may not be revived ; men have done it before, and
the spectacle of women applauding flogging for men is
one to arouse the masculine gorge. Who would have
dreamed, five years ago, that scores of educated Englishwomen
would come to be bodily ill-treated in prison or
beaten by street mobs ? Don’t be mad, women. Give it
all up. The world is not to us. We cannot by any
means whatever get even our due! In understanding
this, and harmonising themselves with the nature of the
world, women dignify their lives. This is true emancipation,
and not such things as Mrs. Lawrence preaches.
Our strength is that men love us, and our “progress”
should be in learning what to applaud in men, SO that
they shall respect us for our mere yea or nay. We have
nothing to teach them ; to think that they have left
anything unexamined is a notion of ignorance. They
know very well what they ought to do, and our business
is to applaud the best, since we suffer or prosper according
to their wisdom or their folly. When men run mad,
we are swept aside like pebbles. Our present tactics are
certainly preparing us for little consideration. Five years
of ceaseless insult will take some wiping out. Those
women who mean to continue should remember the words
of Essex to that Queen, so much quoted by the
suffragettes : “I was never proud, Madam, until you tried
to make me too base.” B. HASTINGS.