Man and Manners.
An Occasional Diary.
WEDNESDAY.-Freda, you’re angry. Don’t deny it.
There’s a look in your eye ! I should think I
am angry! Never you get married, my dear.
Marriage may be the shortest cut to knowing men, but it’s
not the pleasantest, I can tell you! What’s Arnold
been doing now? I asked. Doing? His behaviour at
Aunt’s nearly killed me. Never fit to be seen till
midday. Came down, late of course, to breakfast, not
even shaved, and afterwards put out all the servants’
work by dawdling in the bath and pottering half the
morning in his bedroom. If that’s the Oxford manner
at a friend’s house, all I can say is-How oxenish ! I
suggested. But you don’t mean you let him behave so
at home? Let him! How can I prevent him? I
suppose he thinks now he’s got me he can behave as he
likes-I can’t any longer give him notice. And it’s not
only his appearance--it’s his manner. Paper come? is
his morning’s greeting, and there he sits worrying it
and growling over it like a dog with a bone-never a
word to me except Tea every now and again, poking
out his cup without even looking up! Occasionally, as
at Aunt’s, he decides to read the news aloud: You
mustn’t breathe during this operation-or, at least, you
do so on pain of having a whole paragraph repeated for
punishment. That’s his manly manner to me and mine,
out of whom he’s got all he can! But, mind you, if
Violet or Norah (not relatives, you understand), come
to stay-ye gods, you’d think he was a little godling
himself! Pretty speeches, passing smiles with the
salt, and so on. The paper becomes a “rag,” and even
tea a matter of polite indifference. I m sure Tom
wouldn’t-but, there, I’m not so sure. All men are
the same when they’ve married you! Not all, surely,
said I. Even Arnold’s behaviour arises more from
vanity than indifference to your relatives, my dear.
Behold me, says he, a man of leisure. Work, indeed?
D’ye think I’m a bank clerk? Such almightiness is
mine (Ah, before MY time ! I went UP in-let me see
-’95--6--ah, ’97!) exempted am I from the common
lot. (And if the dressing-gown isn’t a silk one, it soon
shall be. !) Haw-haw ! But why, then, doesn’t he
behave in the same way before Violet? asked Freda.
Oh, well, I said, the manners of spreading a net are not
the manners of keeping a cage. You’ve married him!
Thursday.--Cook‘s given notice, said Elsie. Mine
are always doing it. No wonder, said Joan frankly.
Rather than be your cook I’d be married. My dear,
you’ve no more notion of giving orders to servants than
they usually have of taking them. One day you’re
spoiling them with familiarity, and the next you’re spoiling
them with contempt.
A hemisphere of the trouble with servants, domestic
and public, arises from the manner in which their
employerst reat them. (The other half arises from original
sin, complicated by pseudo-democracy.) It is seldom
supposed that the proper giving of orders is indispensable
to the proper receiving of them. But it is. In
fact, as in the case of money, the giving of orders is
more difficult, if anything, than receiving them. Again,
as with money-that other test of good manners--orders
can be most unpleasant to both parties. The receiver
is often humiliated by the manner of giving, and the
giver humiliated by the manner of receiving them. Why
is it that orders prove often so two-edged? The fault
lies, I think, with the giver rather than with the
receiver. At least, it is only manners to assume it. And
it arises usually from the confusion in the giver’s mind
between himself as a person and the accidental
superiorityo f his- position relatively to the receiver. Because
he is in a position to give orders, therefore, he thinks,
he is the better man qua man. But a good order is nota
personal whim commanded upon a slave, it is simply
a reminder and direction of duty coming from one
Status to another. The discipline of the Army is an
Angry?
So far Joan.
example that need not be elaborated. There, however,
orders are, as a rule, proudly carried out, because they
are properly given. Another illustration is this : A boy
is head of his school. It is quite proper, then, for him,
on the strength of his status, to give orders to junior
boys, but would not a suggestion of his personal
superiority be resented by the other bays as “side”-
(or am I out-of-date3 is it “swank” now? or yet another
equivalent?) To return to Elsie’s case, her superior
.domestic status undoubtedly gives her the right (which
is also a duty) to give orders; and it undoubtedly gives
the cook the duty (which also includes the means) of
obeying them. But what it does not give is the right
to humiliate by treating her servant as if she were the
human as well as social inferior. Bullying a servant
before visitors, for example, is an unpardonable breach
of the rules of giving orders. So is the omission of
“thank you” for any personal service, by which I mean
a service addressed to oneself in particular, such as the
bringing of an early cup of tea as distinct from the
dusting of the staircase, say. Of course, it sometimes ( !)
happens that the status and the person do not fit.
There are people who are not up to their position, and
others who think themselves too big for their boats.
Such people are bound to give orders wrongly, and to
have them (I hope) carried out worse. The fact is that
unless your superiority of manner chimes with your
superiority of status, your insistence upon your status
alone will never command respect. Your inability
in the first will belie you in the second. The commanding
faculty, says Rochefoucauld, is no other than a
graceful authority proceeding from a greatness and
elevation of the soul. I
grieve to repeat myself; but a good order is unnoticeable.
Like all good manners, it likes to work without
being observed. Great art is necessary to create it.
The voice must not express entreaty or the imperative.
It must simply carry command. That, of course, is
clear !
Post-Script. By Joan. A defect of the English servant
is that the better you treat her the worse she will
probably treat you, whereas the reverse is the rule with
the foreign servant. But the English servant is a snob.
Hers is such an inordinate admiration for power that
she despises the person, who, when in a position to
exert it, doesn’t do so. That’s why our upper servants
are such tyrants to those a job beneath them. But,
because a servant mistakes “bossing” for the giving
of good orders, that’s no reason why her mistress
should do so!
Saturday.-When I saw Freda smoking in the cafe
last night I regretted the leniency of men that ever
made women’s smoking possible. In itself smoking
by women needs justification, and it is their manner of
smoking that does or does not provide it. Now
Freda’s certainly doesn’t. It is much too hen-a-hoop.
And Freda is by no means the only woman whose smoking
manners are all wrong. Women with bad smoking
tricks are legion. There is, for example, the woman
who at the end of dinner produces, if you please, her
own cigarette case. Rut it is one thing for a woman
to be ready to smoke if invited and another to be
prepared and equipped with her own fire-arms. She
thereby shows that she has entirely forgotten that
smoking for women is by permission of men; and to
omit their permission is to turn what is a concession
into a claim. There is, again, the wornan who fishes
from her pocket a cigarette-holder in the plain expectation
that some useful man will keep it fed for her. This
attitude is neither one thing nor another-it is neither
the behaviour of a woman nor of a man. Then there is
the woman who smokes on station platforms-not so
much for enjoyment (that I swear) as to throw down
the gauntlet to men. (When, oh when, will women
learn that sex-equality is not sex-identity, and that to
insist on sex-identity is only to create sex-rivalry?) I
was about to say that there are only a few times and
places when and where women may smoke with
Well, what is a good order?
propriety, and a station platform is not one of them. Once
more, there is the woman who thinks stiff collars,
starched voice, and Harris tweeds the necessary masculine
setting €or a trivial cigarette; and will not smoke
out of ’em. There is the woman who makes a bee-line
for smoking carriages-by doing which she is trespassing
as shamelessly. as the man who insists on entering
a carriage labelled “Ladies Only.” There is the woman
-But ’nuff said ! Why do women do all these things?
Why are their smoking manners so graceless? Is
women’s single aim in smoking to smoke like a man?
But women’s manners in men’s customs will never be
identical with men’s. At best they can only be an illlooking
imitation. Besides, why should women try to
imitate men’s smoking manners when they might invent
some prettier ones of their own? There is something
very unresourceful in the woman who can’t, doesn’t, or
won’t make a cigarette play into her hands. It really
looks as though women were losing their feminine
talents of social creation in proportion as they pick up
men’s habits, (What a mistaking is there of the
shadow for the substance!) For if it were not so,
would they be blind to this new weapon of fascination
and charm? Look at the amount of woman’s art that
went to the manipulation of the fan. It was an emblem
of highest civilisation. The handling of the cigarette
permits and requires no less cultivation. The cigarette
is the fan of the twentieth century. And what was done
with the fan in the eighteenth century may be done now
with the cigarette. Until, in fact, it is employed as a
grace in a woman’s hand, and ceases to look like a
Suffrage symbol, women should smoke in practice and
in private.