Victoria.
AT dawn, the rivulet, which ran even all summer from
the far glaciers, was a blue, flat line amidst the pale
flowers on its banks. As the sun arose, the flowers
grew coloured, pink, purple and blue, and the rivulet
became a chain of diamonds; at a rocky point it
divided, and one of its streams flowed into the swamps
while the other dripped down a precipice into a crocodile
Just at sunrise, when outline is very clear, M’binqui’s
mother appeared at the top of the precipice, and
suddenly she flung over into the pool M’binqui-far what
reason, unless that she was simply tired of the burden on
her back, no woman may guess. The young- crocodile on
whom M’binqui landed rushed away more frightened
than hurt and told the tale to his grandmother, who
swam across the pool to convince herself that there was
nothing there, and came head foremost against Destiny
in the shape of a vast Bird that crushed the said head.
Let us sigh; for heaven knows what we are not all
comparatively worth ! She had been an admirable
wife, mother, and grandmother according to her lights.
However, there she stuck, dead as a lizard, against a
rock; and above the rock stood the Bird holding in one
claw M’binqui imbecilely smiling out of her toothless
gums.
“Come, my cherub,” said the Bird, “you and I may
be useful to each other before another day comes
round ”
So saying, she flew up over the precipice with
M’binqui and carried her deep into the forest until they
came where a little mossy cave offered a cradle. Here
the Bird tucked M’binqui in, rolled a stone against the
mouth of the cave, and went off to find a substitute for
the maternal breast. “There !” she cawed, coming
back with some bananas-“there’s what will cool its
little tongue and won’t throw it to the nasty crocodiles
!” M’binqui clutched a banana and dribbled.
“That’s all right,’’ said the Bird, and set about making.
doubly secure from beast and reptile. “If she stuffs all
day, she’ll sleep all night until I want her. What
audacious creatures these mortals be ! No wonder that
pool.
the Lord of Heaven was afraid of their learning too
much ! With no knowledge of what life is, they are
so insolent as to put their kind to death. And they
were made of really the best material! The mistake
was in their surroundings. Fancy giving them tame
lions and serpents as playmates! Enough to make
them insolent as microbes! Lucifer was not so far
wrong. . . hut, good gracious, the baby’s awake ! Da,
da ! diddle, diddle da ! go, to sleep my, little
piccaninny! da, da ! diddle dod a-there, she’s off ! Now
I’ll go see what is happening. I shall startle a supper
out of someone to-night. Another night like last,
supperless and up a tree, no safe bed at all in this country
of leopards, were more than I should have bargained
for in setting out to enjoy mortal felicity for twelve
hours out of their dismal twenty-four !”
Over in the village, the Seven Epfumos were at
work, smelling out the criminal who had done away with
M’binqui. Not that there was any need to smell out,
for the First Epfumo had seen M’binqui’s mother toss
the infant over the precipice; but the accused is not
the only protagonist who finds a criminal trial interesting.
Not, either, that the Seven Epfumos minded in
the least M’binqui’s disappearance. What they did
mind was that M’binqui’s mother should have executed
such a matter without their permission. Herein lay
her crime. And so should say all of us ! For we
ourselves will so little abide that persons should kill without
our permission that we give permission to some
barber or publican to kill the persons; nay, we go the
length of paying the killer, although he would certainly
do the job for nothing,. provided merely we promised
not to extend our permission to a second killer to kill
him. But, in fact, it rather looks as though we are all
killers together, so let us drop the subject, merely
storing up a defence against the Recording Angel that
nothing we may have permitted will have been outside
the permission of Providence.
So the Seven Epfumos, passing slowly through the
village, smelled out the hut of M’binqui’s mother. The
First Epfumo danced around the woman, who lay
crouched upon the floor. Five others shook their great
painted masks and wigs made of bones and feathers,
growling, while the Seventh, indignation overpowering
him, leapt forward and clawed the criminal to his heart’s
content. At four of the afternoon, the Court decided
to adjourn to the place of crime, which likewise was
destined to become the place of punishment. The whole
population followed, except the retinue of the old Chief,
who stayed smoking amidst his warriors and devising
plans for the discomforture of the men of the robe,
seven of whom, in one small tribe, did seem impertinent.
Down by the crocodile pool M’binqui’s mother lay,
bound, beaten, and gasping out her wicked life, hoping
for nothing but a drink of water before she died.
The people, debauched these days by criminal trials,
and whom only a bloody war might have really
interested, stood about waiting for nothing but the
conclusion to the interminable dances, growls, and clawings
of the judges-waiting for the slaughter of the
accused. “It’s past sundown,” they murmured ; “we
have got the meal to grind still !” When, suddenly, out
of the pool, out of the purple shades, started an
Apparition. The folk yelled and fell back. The Epfumos
slunk to the earth like dogs that have been caught stealing
fat. The Apparition advanced up the rocky way
and stood clear upon the cliff, a ghost with yellow hair.
An old, old blackie alone held his ground or, at least,
lie held it with his knees whereon he sank, ecstatically
stretching his right arm above his head. And thus
everyone remained until the runners of the Chief came,
warned by several frantic arrivals that something
uncommon was taking place. The first runner merely saw
and ran back. The second asked news of the Epfumos,
who scrambled up, and seeing the motionless Apparition,
began to accuse each other of witchcraft. The
Apparition moved towards them and they fled. The
Apparition then moved back to the cliff-edge. The third
runner asked news of the old man.
“It is the Spirit of the Great White Queen!” he
whispered; and let us hope that even Victoria of
impeccable memory might not have been entirely
displeased at the idea of parading Paradise in a ghost
which a Greek might have mistaken for Aphrodite of
Cnidos.
“What’s all this hullaballoo?” said the Chief,
coming up. He adjusted his feathers a bit upon catching
sight of the Apparition. “The Great White Queen !”
sang the old man. She saluted royally, and advanced,
saying-“Long life, O Chief !” and he responded-“O
Queen, thy subjects number as the mealies!” The
Epfumos crept alongside-“ O Chief, if she is really a
Spirit and not some wandering maniac, let her re-enter
the pool and return before our eyes.”
“If she is really a mad white woman,” retorted the
Chief--“I should have to answer for her death in the
pool. A real white madwoman or a real Spirit were
equally inexplicable. In fact, I can easier believe in
the Spirit. ”
The Spirit understood that her bread was buttered
for a royal supper. “Where is M’binqui?” she
thundered, turning upon the Epfumos-“Say, you smellersout
!” They could not say, because they did not know.
They would have given their ears to khow; and
M’binqui’s fate would have been sealed ! The Chief
and his warriors frowned ; the ,people giggled. The
Epfumos puffed and snarled. The Spirit of the Great
White Queen waved to the assembly-“Bring torches
and follow me. Let the mother come, too.” It was a
great procession, and, returning, very noisy. All night
the country blazed in honour of the Great White Queen
who flew back to heaven at sunrise.
But the Government could not make anything of the
yarn. No white woman was missing! It used the
opportunity, however, of warning the Chief that either
he or the Epfumos would be suppressed, since smellingout
is forbidden by English law which demands
somethinmg ore than someone’s conviction to procure someone
else’s. ALICE MORNING.