A Seventh Tale for Men Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
I.
BARRINGER asked permission to bring to our conversazione
a new man of the name of Doran, whom he had
met somewhere. I don’t know, said Barringer, what is
his special subject, so that you must all risk a disappointment
. At the same time, unless my impressions
are fakse I think we shall find something remarkable
in him. A man has not his air of distinction without
containing a germ of some kind of perfection; and it
must be our business to discover what it is.
On the appointed evening Barringer brought his new
acquaintance and introduced him to us. I was at once
struck by Doran’s air of distinction, the same that had
impressed Barringer. It was strangely elusive, however
; and the image occurred to me that a squirrel could
not have alternately hidden and revealed itself more
saucily-timidly upon a tree than this air of Doran’s
upon his manner. What secret of shyness is here, I
asked myself-a shyness which is the other side of boldness
For it was observable that for all his apparent
shyness Doran never lost his real self-possession for a
minute. It was as if he had brought with his mind a
body subject to occasional panic which, however, did not
communicate itself to his mind. Once again an image
occurred to me: that of a ventriloquist operating a
dummy. But here the dummy was a man; and the
ventriloquist an invisible mind.
The subject of the evening’s discussion was not
particularly well adapted, as I thought, to make a newcomer
reveal himself. All the more need, therefore, I
thought, of subtlety. For what observer can expect the
secrets of psychology to be always displayed in limelight?
We must learn to divine, as the old soothsayers
(rare psychologists!) did, from straws and the apparently
insignificant. But I was more fortunate than I
expected to be. As a matter of fact, the subject-
“Ibsen as a False Light ofW isdom”-proved to be the
best that could have been chosen if choice for the occasion
had been made. Weingott had read a paper ; and
in it he had indicated as Ibsen’s defect his insistence
upon the need of any and all experience. Characteristic,
Weingott said, of a small nation without a past and
aspiring to a future ; a symptom of rawness and crudity.
. He balanced this criticism somewhat by crediting
Ibsen with a noble conception of courage. Clearly, he
said, the two things-a desire for experience and the
spirit of courage-were dependent one upon the other
iF both were to arrive at any degree of greatness. The
desire to experience, without courage, simply turned
upon its unfortunate owner to rend him. And courage,
on the other hand, without the desire .to experience,
ended in mere stoicism, the capacity to endure. Ibsen,
he continued, preached both ; and in that he was wise ;
but he was a false prophet in so far as he never distinguished
between the experiences that ought and that
ought not to be desired, Here was his courage, swift
and strong as a boarhound; but he would allow it to
pursue any quarry of experience, from a mouse to an
elephant. So there were courage, he cared not in what
cause it was employed. But this omnivorousness argued
an elementary appetite for experience, as if, in fact,
his audience were for the first time human, and, in the
first flush of looking upon human life, had imagined
it to be all good and all equally good. It was democracy,
in the sense of absolute equality, in the sphere
of experience. And though the courage Ibsen taught
was fine, it was too fine to be set to serve such an indiscriminating
appetite. Weingott concluded that Ibsen
was a great man confined within a very small country.
He-was a sort of Jonah in the belly of a whale. And
even if he had not heen thrown overboard, sooner or
later he must himself have left the ship. His light was
false because it was set upon a plain instead of upon
a hill. It beaconed nowhere.
To the discussion that followed I paid the closest
attention in the hope of surprising the squirrel in our new
acquaintance’s manner. Throughout the reading of the
paper he had sat interested but a little baffled. It was
a recurrent guess of mine that at times, as Weingott
was criticising Ibsen’s doctrine of pan-experience,
Doran’s mind rushed out to agree, but only to find
itself met by a powerful resistance, before which his first
impulse retired bewildered and reluctant. When Weingott
imaged the situation of Ibsen as equivalent to
Jonah’s, I thought I saw the squirrel flit across Doran’s
face as if in a ray of sunlight, but only instantly to hide
itself in a gloomy doubt. I determined to see what I
could say to induce it out again.
What a power is speech ! No wonder that in the
beginning was the Word, and that all creation is said
to follow the conversation of the gods. It may be
fanciful, but it sometimes seems to me that the events
of this world are no more than the material shadowgraphs
of the discussions in heaven; and that, as the
high doctrines proceed there in the blessed symposium
of the exalted intelligences, so events here follow them.
Thus, from the above to the below, or from the below
to the above is for the spiritually discerning, the. mere
translation, the one, of events into their causal words,
and, the other, of words into consequent. events. This
would give some significance to the saying of the Hindus,
that for the twice-born words are actions. It would
also give a meaning to the perpetual endeavour of the
best of men to discover the ideas underlying or embodied
in events, and to express them in words.
My remarks in the discussion had these two merits,
that, in the first place, they were relevant to Weingott’s
paper; and, in the second place, they were equally de- .-
signed to knock at Doran’s door to see what was at
home with him. And, as for the latter, I was to be
gratified in some measure.
The antithesis, I said, that Weingott had sought to
establish between past experience and the selection of
experience was not, in my opinion, real, or analogous
with the antithesis supposed (but falsely) to exist between
democracy and aristocracy. Nietzsche was
responsible for this kind of false parallelism ; and many
a cudgel to beat the democratic dog had been taken
from his tree. The true relation between all experience
and selected experience was the relation of Science to
Art. On the one hand, Science could obviously make
no distinction of experience, since its pursuit is not conditioned
by taste, or even by the good; and, again, as
history has often shown, its discoveries were as
frequently the result of trivial as of a priori important
facts. Hence, the Scientist was bound to be omnivorous
of experience, and to reject nothing until he had carefully
sifted it to the very ashes. Art, en the other hand,
was under necessity by its nature to pursue a different
method. Instead of taking all experience or all facts
for its province, its peculiar mission was to select, which
involves to reject as well. Now there was in Ibsen, as
we know, a conflict of character represented by the fact
that, as a young man, he took up chemistry at the same
time that he was set upon writing poetry. This was
most significant. A young man who was sure of himself
would have decided for science or for art; and the
fact that for some years Ibsen could not decide was proof
of the duality of his character. Later, as we know, he
threw up chemistry to become a playwright. But even
this decision was not final; for the further dilemma
awaited him whether he should become a romantic or a
realist dramatist. How did he decide? Having left
Science for Art his scientific tendencies, it seems to me,
then revenged themselves by insisting that, at least,
his Art should be scientific. And hence we find him
killing the Pegasus that was born in him; or, rather,
yoking it with the pedestrian horse of Science. The.
consequence upon his doctrine was the appearance of
what Weingott has called Ibsen’s pan-experience. The
pan-experience was the price his Art paid to his Science
for its ticket-of-leave.
All the time that I was making these remarks I kept
my eyes warily upon Doran. At every reference to the
distinction between the universality of Science and the
particularity of Art, and, above all, when I applied the
two categories to life in general, his eyes lit and that
elusive expression that I have compared with a squirrel
came into his face. I was convinced that somewhere in
the region of this subject Doran’s heart was hid. Was
he a scientist or an artist? Was he, like Ibsen at his
age, doubtful of his own nature?
Much of this, as I have said, was now to be cleared
up. For Doran spoke. His comments were confined to
the point I had raised, whether experience should be
sought totally or selectively. Experience, he said, is not
a thing in itself; or, if it is, it must needs be the result
of the contact of the ego with persons and things. Of
experience among things we need not take much account.
Selection among them is not only within our
power, but I grant that it is desirable. But is selection
among persons equally possible or equally desirable ?
We do not choose our parents or our relatives, nor
even the people among whom we work. A large segment
of our circle is therefore outside Mr. Congreve’s
doctrine. The remaining segment consists certainly of
friends more or less of our own choice. But here, again,
the less has it over the more. I mean that many of our
friends (the greater number) choose themselves ; or,
rather, fate chooses for both of us. Finally, there are
left, perhaps, one or two of really our own choosing.
But even now our selective power ceases practically with
its first exercise. Would you have a man so fickle as
to reject when he has once chosen? Or admit to himself
that his judgment at the moment of choice was blind?
On the contrary, it seems clear to me that his business
is to keep his word even to his awn hurt; not to fidget
like a butterfly from person to person; but to remain
where he has once chosen to be until fate releases him.
To select experience is to set up to know more than
Fate. Amor Fati.
It may be imagined that I was profoundly interested
in Doran’s able speech, brightly lighting, as it did, his
character and even his circumstances to my observation.
Having got the key, there was nothing else for the
moment (since the meeting was over) than to test it. I
therefore took a chance of remarking as if casually to
him, as we said good-night: You know, Doran, there
are two kinds of stoics-those who endure a fate they
cannot cure; and those who endure a fate they will
not cure. Ah, he
laughed, I dare not say.
Is it cannot or will not with you?
(To be continued.)
t