an and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL Diary
Monday--The underground is also underbred. It is
the exception to escape from a tube unscathed from a
volley of stares. Why do people stare, I wonder? Is
one reason that they lack the art of taking in a situation
at a glance? Probably But of many things good
manners demand only a glance, and that the swiftest.
Take, for example, the case of a cripple. The quickwitted,
gentle-minded person sums up the trouble in a
lightning flash. He knows that he must not look
longer. The dull-head, curiosity over-riding delicacy,
adds offence to affliction by staring. Staring is essentially
the action of the hobbledehoy or hobbledehussy
indicating, as it does, that the lenses of the mind have
to remain open a long time before they receive any
impression ! But whatever the reason-and people
who have the staring habit will stare at any commonplace
thing rather than not stare at all-staring is
atrocious bad manners. You never do anyone a good
turn by it. Your stare is not a repairing outfit, neither
are you a licensed pickthank to go poking at will about
other peopl’s pies.
your mind a slave that the first odd occurrence makes
its absorbed spectator ?
Besides, see the implication-Is
Wednesday.-Don’ts in polite conversation !
Don’t imagine that you have no need to remember
these Don’ts.
Don’t contradict without mixing some ha’pence with
your kicks. (“You may be right, but I really think,’’
etc.)
You will not gain his attachment
by doing so. Besides, rubbing noses is non-
European.
Don’t, while waiting for an idea to enter your mind,
try ta hold attention by saying and-d-d-d-&--(to
infinity).
Don’t interrupt with-“Oh, I thought of that-I was
just going to say that,’’ etc. Your partner may not be
so flattered by the implication as you evidently are.
Don’t try to make a rope of sand by linking your remarks
with “He said--so I said.”
Don’t make puns by design. People who make puns,
said Holmes, are like wanton boys that put coppers on
the railroad tracks . . . their little tricks may upset a
freight train of conversation for the sake of a battered
witticism.
Don’t speak your mind so plainly as to leave nothing
to be said.
Don’t lecture-assume your hearer only chances not
to know, or has only to be reminded.
Don’t think that some show of regard for others’
opinions weakens your argument. On the contrary,
the more pleasing you make it, the more powerful the
effect.
Don’t imagine that either a noisy or a quiet man is
always in the right !
Don’t insist on finishing your sentence or your argument
if the meaning is already conveyed.
Don’t impose on a friend a résumé of the play or book
you have just enjoyed.
Don’t fail to ask, before expounding your own, what
your partner’s ideas upon a subject are.
Don’t assume that your friend’s ear is the mouthpiece
of a phonograph.
Don’t bore; but flagellate your mind every time it
even seems to have bored anybody.
Thursday.-Haven’t we all been annoyed by the Had
Manners of the Bad Listener who : Keeps tapping the
floor with his foot, as much as to say, Hurry up, hurry
up, it’s my turn now !-Champs his watch-chain, forages
through his pockets, dabs with his pencil, clinks his
money, gazes at the window, conducts his tongue on a
tour round his mouth-Interrupts with “that reminds
me of the day I-I-I-I”-Indicates by a yawn that he
doesn’t attach so much importance to what you’re say-
Don’t buttonhole a man.
He is alive inside.
ing as you do-Pays you mouth-honour to the extent of
a non-committing mmmm-Assents with his tongue
while his mind is away on a journey-Pretends to
understand when he doesn’t-Pretends to want to understand
when he can’t or won’t-Lies in wait with a
trivial correction to the obvious neglect of the whole
argument-Smiles mysteriously at some word, and will
not say why-Refers you to an authority for everything
you say-Is sceptical before you have finished- Anticipatesyour
conclusions wrongly-Asks you to say something
all over again, because a word was missed?
Friday.-Really, uncle is a nuisance, said Elsie.
Here I’ve been, wasting a whole afternoon on him.
Why wasting? I asked. Well, you don’t suppose pottering
about with an old man profits me anything, do
you? But it should, surely, said I. What names
would you call the man who said, Here I’ve been, wasting
a whole afternoon talking to a woman ! Yet he’d
have much the same cause for complaint that you have.
Nothing tangible to show for it. The woman has provided
him with no new idea for peace terms, our
blockade policy, reprisals, or with any fresh principle of
neo-Hegelian wisdom. Neither has your uncle, I suppose,
supplied you with any fresh bit of scandal about
Joan, explosives for a poem, invitation to dinner, or
neo-feminist fangle. But what you have both overlooked
is, in the case of the man, the ineffable effect of
contact with the feminine mind-the reservoir of intuition;
and, in your case, the inexpressible effect of
contact with the ripe, experienced mind of an old manthe
reservoir of tradition. Old people are,’ as it were,
the living embodiments of tradition, and young people
who have no reverence for old age have none for tradition
either. You can almost measure a young man’s
attitude towards tradition by his manner of treating old
people. But why should we respect tradition? asked
Elsie. Why respect the rock of ages from which. the
present (you admire so much) has gushed? Where are
your good manners, madam? Well, but tell me what
is the beneficial effect of contact with old age? If you
can’t express it, how do you know there is any? Can
you, I asked, define the effect produced on the mind by
an old church, say, or an aid-fashioned garden, or a
time-worn tune? I can’t in terms, but I know their influence
is to mellow and sweeten. So, I think, the
virtue of the old man’s experience acts like a charm on
a young mind. And, anyhow, I believe that the young
man who possesses the friendship of a much older one
has a very treasure-trove of proven precepts to draw
upon. But why should the opinion of an old man be
so valuable? asked Elsie. Well, I said, for one thing,
I think the operation of time usually results in
wisdom rather than folly. Then, the old man can afford
to be impartial. He has finished with ambitions, and
his judgment is distorted no langer by the passions of
youth. He is no longer equipping himself for this
life’s battles; hence, his view is unbounded by this
world’s range-Oh, there are a score of reasons why
an old man’s opinion is worth hearing, and why, mind
you, Elsie, consideration and respect are an old man’s
due. Well, I treat uncle all right, don’t I? Scarcely,
said I. Your nicest feeling for him is pity. But he
doesn’t know that! said Elsie. Course he knows.
Manners arising from pity are as precarious as their
foundation. And besides, your uncle doesn’t need
your pity, though he does merit your respect and consideration.
Look at the reverence with which the
butler handles the wine-bottle that is covered with cobwebs
! A little rust, you know, is often more valuable
than a new piece of gold. But, surely, said Elsie, the
debt isn’t all on one side? Old age owes youth something?
It does, I said. The business of the old is to
temper the world’s winds to the young. That is their
positive virtue. Rut there is a dark side to it. And
old. people should remember the injunction “No vampirising
the young.” For just as youth draws, if it
will, intelligence from the experience of old age, old
age draws, if it will, vitality from contact with youth.