As It Fell Out.
THE waves of the sea beat up to the door of the old hut.
Another sort of romancer than the present one would
tell you that they beat up in curiosity-so as to excite
your own as to what was going on inside the hut; but,
in fact, the waves had no human sentiments whatever
and merely beat up to the door because they always did
that when the wind blew hard. Inside the hut were the
witch with double pupils to her scarlet eyes, and the
peri who had come to earth because the Lower Paradise
was so monotonous. It was still broad daylight and
the peri was in full infernal dress, green wings, veils,
anklets and all, and her gigantic eyes watched the wit with
who was tying into a parcel a moonshine-made fur
coat, and a white satin frock, and petticoats, and shoes,
and jewels.
supper, dearie?” .
“She has promised me the money to-night before
“Yes, yes. Come, be quick.”’
The witch put on a bonnet and mantle, took the
parcel in her arms, and opened the door; the peri folfollowed
her outside; the witch shut the door; the peri
caught the witch in her claws and up they went, the
pair of them into the air, flying cloud-high towards
London. In an hour they hovered above Hampstead
Heath, and the peri looked down for a lonely spot where
she might alight in the sulphurous gloom of a dog-day
sunset too blinding for anyone to look at if, by chance,
anyone silly enough to do so had survived the heat.
Down they fell, like Lucifer himself, into a little wood,
and there the witch sat undoing her parcel while the
peri made her form as small as a beetle and waited for
the disappearance of the sun. He disappeared. The
witch growled and rumbled with expectation. The peri
turned into a non-dressed lady who put on her clothes
in, perhaps, record time.
‘‘NOW
we’ll walk to the edge of the Heath and take a taxi to
the Princess de Cotton’s. She will give me the five
pounds for bringing you-Miss Perry ! You will singto
her in private and afterwards at her soiree and she
will take you under her protection, and launch you in
the Opera if you prove all which I have said you are.
There !”
Miss Perry replied--“You are a mortal fool, mother.
With half your malignity turned to common sense, you
might have all the money you want. The common
sense of your earth is to do unto others as you would be
done by. All very well for me as an immortal to molest
and pester, or to work either good or evil as the humour
takes me. It amuses me to see people chop and change
from sinner to saint and from saint to sinner, moaning,
praying, dancing and grinning. But for a sensitive
mortal, glued to earth and his fellows, the common
sense thing is to keep a good conscience to make friends
against the day of trouble. You will offend the Princess
de Cotton, who will be furious when I do never more
turn up.
“She defrauded me once of a pound,” snarled the
witch. “I will defraud her of five, and make a fool of
her into the bargain.”
“So be it,” returned Miss Perry. “I spoke common
sense to you with this mortal tongue You prefer to be
devoured by your own passion. I shall keep our
infernbaalr gain and serve your passion.”
“But what passion brought you to earth, darling?”
“Envy, hatred, wrath, pride and lust. Several, you
see ! Nevertheless, being- immortal, these merely affect
my power temporally. For me there is no fatality, no
forever, no finish. You remember that, on coming
here, I laid a term to my passions. Seven infernal
years shall I pass here to the second, that is twenty-one
days of your slow time. Fifteen mortal nights have I
wandered this world. My forfeit paid at the Gate, I
shall make the Fallen Angels split their sides with the
tale of these mortals who plan according to their passions
as though they resided in Eternity instead of being
liable to die dreaming of to-morrow.”
“There’s a lovely dear,” declared the witch.
She will hunt you down.”
“I shall make a fool of her !” muttered the witch.
“Enough ! I am longing to talk, chatter, babble,”
said Miss Perry. “This mortal, feminine tongue craves
to wag, these mortal ears crave to hear.”
“If ever again you come to earth you should let me
turn you into a man.”
“Ha, hx !” laughed Miss Perry ; “malicious old
creature !”
A taxi came along and they got in and drove to the
Princess de Cotton’s. ’The Princess was a tall, elderly
lady with grey hair, green eyes, and red complexion,
and an unnecessary ivory stick. Having thus no merits
of her own as this world goes, she confessed to exploiting
those of others.
“The young singer,” she announced to three or four
people who sat with her in her drawing-room. “My old
fortune-teller has found her for me.’’ The lovely Miss
Perry looked around the group in a way which made
everyone at least willing to like her, and then at the
Princess who had not moved from her chair, but who
suddenly rose and said : “I have a good half-hour
before dinner, Miss Perry. Will you take tea before
you sing?”
’ “No, no, thank you. I am ready.“ But I am little
embarrassed. I must not let you suppose me really
a very new ‘ find.’ I have had quite a nice success at
the German Court, where I spent a week singing every
evening. The war altered suddenly my career. ”
“Oh, how sad and interesting !” exclaimed the Princess,
and the people echoed, “Immensely sad and interesting
!”
So Miss Perry sang; and, somehow, the Princess
found herself lavishing wine and things, and not merely
this-but inviting to dinner, to supper, to stay for ever
and never leave her a person introduced on no more respectable
authority than old Matilda the Fortune-teller
who was downstairs terrifying the housemaids with
futures containing no money and large families. People
rushed off to bring other people, and after supper Miss
Perry lay on the Princess’s own bed of repose in one
of the Princess’s own robes of repose while half a
dozen women sat around like a lot of Graces all turned
hospital nurse.
“I do not need to rest. I need to talk,” declared
Miss Perry.
“Yes, let us talk,” cried a pretty young woman;
“but won’t you tell us about yourself? We are all
such ordinary souls. How did you like the German
Court ?”
“It would have been more agreeable, but less amusing,
if all the men had been absent.”
“Understood ! ” shrieked everybody.
“I passed through Turkey on my way here, with
letters to several women of position. In Turkey things
would have been more agreeable, but less amusing, if
all the men had been Present. ‘The German women
have turned their men into terrible children, and the
Turks have turned theirs into terrible husbands. ”
“I would sooner have to exercise in passion than in
patience,” said the pretty woman “That is always
more agreeable, though less amusing, ” The Princess
looked bewildered :
Is passion agreeable?
Is patience amusing ?’’
“What on earth do you mean?
“So say the novels and the comedies.”
“Not for me, indeed! Passion and patience would
equally suffocate me. We English have hit the medium
in both We are passionate up to marriage and patient
up to five per cent Beyond that all is what no Christian
can abide.”
A little brown lady, who knew her Princess, captured
the conversation before it escaped. “You have
made one of your wonderful intuitive hits, Winifred,
in introducing this five per cent. Money is the root
of women’s evil as well as of all other. So long as
women have no fixed and inalienable resource, however
limited to necessity, their passion and their patience will
make of men either terrible children or terrible husbands
because these qualities become manufactured
from jealousy and cynicism instead of springing from
love So we Western women find it agreeable to be
done, while the Eastern find it tormenting. ’’
“Apparently, then, the men who control the money
are wholly to blame for getting from women jealousy
and cynicism instead of passion and patience. Very
pretty !” laughed the Princess, as though she had said
just the opposite, and she added inconsequently: “If
my housemaids had a resource they would not sweep
my floors, but would be off love-making all along the
road. Business would go to pieces because no woman
would clean out an office.”
“Old soldiers and sailors and tinkers and tailors
would said the brown lady; “and so no one would
be starving and we should not be worried every winter
about charity. ”
“And you really suppose that the thing would work
even if I could put up with an old tinker sweeping
my floors! The men would get women body and soul
for an extra feather, just as they do now.”
“Ah, but the point is that while nasty women would
have to be bought as ever, nice ones need no longer
pretend to be nasty in order to keep a roof over their
-
heads.
marriage would cease to be a jungle.”
women. ”
Men would get the truth from women, and
“I have yet to learn that men want the truth from
“Each man wants the truth from one woman.”
“I tell you that the women would not marry.”
“Nature would see to that as ever.”
“Oh-love affairs-plenty !”
‘‘No ! Babies and a nest.”
“Not likely I”
“Certain !” l
.“Well, no tinker shall sweep my house. I’ll fight it
tooth and nail.”’
Here Miss Perry hit on the idea of fainting, and was
put to bed. “Let Matilda come and sit by me,” she
asked. “I have a malady which she alone knows how
to relieve.” “How sad and interesting !” exclaimed the
Princess. “Immensely sad and interesting !” echoed
the rest. Even the brown lady returned to the world
from Utopia.
The latter said :
“I’ve got my five pounds! Have you talked enough,
darling?”
I am too strong,” laughed the peri. “With all
your art you cannot make me their equal. I command
into activity the passion of each mortal. I am bored
to death. I wanted to talk, chatter, babble. My illluck
was to fall upon a person with a plan. Make up
your bundle, mother, and let us be off. Ah ! for one
singing, idling, dancing, chattering hour of the paradise
!”
The witch collected all the silver boxes and bottle
lids lying about. “How the old cat will screech !” she
grinned. ALICE MORNING