Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
SUNDAY.--Was it the spectre of the bad manners of the
good man, I wonder, that drove me to deal so lightly
with rakes a few weeks ago? I wouldn’t be surprised;
it is enough to stimulate a prejudice against goodness
to see good men robbing vice to pay virtue. For what
but a form of vice are the disagreeable manners that so
frquently accompany merit? And how often do they
account for the arrows drawn at virtue? But there are
wrong as well as right ways of saving even your own
soul; and since there is no necessity in Nature why
virtue should not be agreeable, to make it disagreeable
must needs be wrong. Some of the errors of the good
man in the worst sense of the word (the phrase,
unfortunately, is not mine) arise from the fact that he cannot
discriminate between good and bad pleasures. Pleasure
in the lump is bad ! He forgets that the pursuit of
innocent pleasures is one of the legitimate activities of
life ; some have even said the only pursuit ! Dancing,
theatre-going, smoking, joking-he condemns them
every one for everybody. He is disagreeably democratic.
I recall an incident
on a journey to Switzerland. Two young men, one of
whom asked the only girl in the carriage if she objected
to their smoking-full train-no chance of a seat in a
smoker. Of course I don’t mind, she replied. But I
do! Smoking, indeed! Disgusting habit! barked a
distempered anti-smoker-and there the two men had
to sit without a cigarette to consume a 12-hour winter’s
journey. Now, what pleasant impression of virtuous
abstinence did this good man leave on the minds of all
within hearing ? lnstead of fighting with pleasant
words for his principles, he left his principles to fight
for his unpleasant manners. Their worth, he says, is
my fortune. But on what authority does a god man
rest on his virtues, and on the strength of them claim
total exemption from the service of pleasing? And
with what purpose? Does he think his principles will
be compromised by god manners to people he thinks
of as goats, and thus reserves them for those whom he
deems the elect sheep? But how unshepherdly! By
such behaviour he is bringing his sheep into disrepute,
and raises the price of goats ! This is not taking the
devil by the horns. It is not even twisting his tail.
On the contrary, by just so much as the unlovely
manner of the good man makes virtue repellent, a
cubit is added to the devil’s stature. A few flowers on
the bush of virtue would be worth cultivating.
Anyonew ould think good men were human cacti, they
blossom so seldom !
MoNDAy.-Freda was talking about “The Rainbow”
yesterday. Did you read it? I asked. Every word of
it-disgusting : she said, apparently without any
appreciation of the inconsistency between her act and
her professed taste. I have often wondered that people
take such pains to see, hear or read what they declare
disgusts them. There are people who tell you that
So-and-so’s Stories are really-well, you know-but
really one can’t help listening to them. There are
people who sit watching a mixed-bathing party, the
while they let off round after round of abuse at its
immodesty. There are people who pester their
libraries for a book they publicly pronounce unfit to be
read. There are people who stand two hours in a
queue to see a play they tell you ought never to have
been staged. I remember the crowds that went, not to
see “Pygmalion,” but just to treat themselves to the
sanguinary thrill that was the magnet and advertising
agent of the play. Those who had been before would
begin nudging their companions a full five minutes
previous to the culminating delight-Now it’s coming,
And the way he does it !
now it’s coming-then squeals of uneasy laughternight
after night the same farce. Now, which part of
the programme is the affectation and which the real
taste? Why-in the one case-do what honestly
offends your taste ?-Or why-in the other-publicly
speak with such pious fervour against what delights
you in secret? As it is, to tell a person that a thing
isn’t fit to see is almost a guarantee that he will sneak
off to see it. Do most people find things
in good taste so boring that they must needs seek
diversion even against their own judgment-in
intellectual bad manners?
that it can be sacrificed for a shudder or a thrill?
Perhaps, after all, it is so. For the same people (and
others as well) are guilty of the reverse form of
hypocrisy. They will pretend to like something and
neglect it-to adore Shakespeare and never go to one
of his plays-to admire Browning and never to read
him-to respect THE NEW AGE but never to buy it.
Such people ensure the success of the bad and the
failure of the good.
Tuesday.-Even the meanest cannot be too careful
about the giving of presents ! It is generally assumed
that because a present is a gift it must give pleasure as
well. Very much the contrary, however. An
unsuitable present not only fails to please but succeeds in
positive annoyance. I do not speak of the present that
is a commercial transaction-the business present that
only lacks a label to make a traveller’s sample of it.
I refer to the presents that pass between relations and
friends for the supposed purpose of pleasing. To give
pleasure a present must be adapted to the unique taste
or need of the presentee, and great insight and art are
demanded for the discovery. You must put yourseIf
in his place-a difficult psychological Teat. What would
you like if his profession, hobby or tastes were yours?
Has he already got this book, or that piece of
furniture?-and so on. Have you never heard of the kind
lady who presented a piano to a Home for the Incurably
Deaf? Or of the writer who had a book of his
own poems sent to him?-not by an enemy ! Only
this morning I witnessed the opening of a birthday
parcel which turned out to contain a pair of beaded
carpet slippers !-this the ridiculous gift of a wealthy
sister-in-law to a man whose age should still have
ensured the compliment of leather. For a discreet
question would have revealed the fact that the brotherin-
law was already possessed of four pairs of pet
slippers, including beads laid up in lavender against
retirement ! Why do people make these mistakes?
It can only be through carelessness, surely, since
presents are not intended to give offence. But since
a little Consideration would usually divine the need of
the presentee, the only interpretation to be put on an
unsuitable present is that the sender hasn’t reckoned
your pleasure worth his thought., Donors ought to
remember that the duty of a present does not end with
giving the recipient a surprise-the surprise must be a
delightful one if the present is to be perfect. Also the
manner of giving should be such as to make the
presentee feel himself distinguished. But who could
feel distinguished by the gift of a brace of partridges
bearing their death-certificate round their necks-Shot
August 12-one brace of a hundred or so? I admit,
however, that this instance has custom and reason on
its side. But what about the Christmas present, say,
that comes, you can see, suggested and packed by the
shopman, with the donor’s visiting-card enclosed-bearing
no word in his own writing, mind you? Does such
a manner of giving entitle the recipient to feel
distinguishedin any way? On the contrary. You are, you
tell yourself, just one of the. twenty others a rich man
has thought it would look well to humiliate with his
patronage. This is not only giving presents by
machinery, but is turning the trade into a wholesale
rather than retail business ! The remedy? Don’t give
a present at all if you haven’t time or inclination to
make it acceptable.