A Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
II.
IT had been arranged that at the following meeting of
our circle I should open the discussion with a paper;
and I was meditating the subject one day when
Barringer, who had introduced Doran to us, called upon
me. My dear Congreve, he said, I want your advice
about Doran‘. But, in the first place, tell me what
you think of him. Oh, he is all right, I said, but in
danger of becoming egg-bound. That theory of his that
he must accept conditions sequential upon his first
choice is showing signs of hardening; but I hope we
shall be able to stop it calcifying. I’m glad, said
Barringer, that you like him; for I have something to
tell you. I was dining out with some friends last
evening and, after dinner, as one or two of them were
from the country, our host invited us all to the Pamirs
-you know the place-to show off London’s pastoral
revels. Who do you think was there? No other than
Doran, and with one of the strangest women creatures
imaginable : a girl more like an orchid than a woman,
and an orchid upon a particularly repulsive plant. I
don’t mean to say that she was physically unbeautiful,
nor even that she was vulgar in manners. On the
contrary, everything about her had a certain charm.
But never in my life have I seen anybody who struck me
so forcibly as having been bred and brought up in
moonlight. The moment I saw her I thought of
everythingtr adition and poetry have said of the moon.
She might have been a young Thessalian witch on
terms of familiarity with the cold, fruitless moon. There
is also Shelley’s phrase about “the moonlight-coloured
may.” She had colour, but it was not a colour got in
the sun. She had vigour and an appearance of health,
but both seemed to depend upon sap drawn by night.
In a word, she was through and through etiolated.
Doran was sitting at a table with her with some books
in front of him when I entered; and, on seeing me, he
came across to shake hands. He expressed no surprise
to find me there, nor did he show any sign of expecting
me to be surprised to find him there. Come over, he
said, if you can and talk to me for a while. As soon
as I had got my party settled I joined Doran and the
girl and we sat and chatted for about a quarter of an
hour. My stars, Congreve, the girl ! No sooner had
I sat down than she began to make advances to me of
the strangest kind. ‘There was nothing direct in themthere
was not a flash in her eyes--there was not a trace
of merriment or gaiety in her expression. But, all the
same, if I may so put it, her eyes rayed and ghosts of
smiles flitted across her face. Doran observed her
making her moony passes over me; but, to my
surprise, he did not appear in the least concerned. And
when I turned my attention from her to him he, so to
speak, handed it back to her again, as if he preferred
to indulge her mood to indulging his own. Her
conversation was not intelligent in our sense of the word,
but neither was it stupid. I can only describe it as
being oblique to reason. It was not sense, it was not
nonsense; it was simply neither the one nor the other,
nor did it partake of the nature of either. It almost
made me creepy to hear a conversation out of Kubla
Khan’s caverns measureless to man, though there was
nothing. really fascinating in it. However, I soon tired
the girl, it seemed, for after a few minutes she caught
sight of a young long-haired painter, and, without a
word of apology, left us, rushed up to him and kissed
him vigorously on each eye. The young man took it
as a matter of wearisome course, and I turned to see
the effect upon Doran. Once again, I was surprised to
find that he was apparently unconcerned, though,
indeed, there was no gaiety in his look. He caught my
glance, however, and, as if repeating an explanation he
had too often given himself to find any longer interesting,
he remarked : a strange creature, Barringer ! She
is all the women of the world in one ! Strangely
charming, I commented, and then left off, thinking that
if more was to be said, Doran should invite it. After
a moment or two’s silence, he asked if I was at all
puzzled at finding him there and in her company. Well,
yes, I said, but doubtless he had good reasons for it.
If not good reasons, he replied, at least reasons; I
should like to talk about it one day-are you free at any
time during the day? I offered this morning, and he
accepted. I have just come from spending the whole
morning with him.
All this was interesting, it is needless to say, and I
settled down to hear the remainder of Barringer’s narrative.
The girl, it was obvious, was the Fate to which
Doran had referred in his comments at our last meeting.
She was his alleged pan-experience. But was it
cannot or would not that held him to it? Perhaps I
should now learn for certain.
First explaining that it was no breach of confidence
to repeat Doran’s conversation to me-for Doran had
expressly wished that I should be told-Barringer
recounted his story as follows :-
Doran, it seems, fie said, was born and brought up
in an out-of-the-way village in Cambridgeshire, where,
as a boy, he had the advantage of the personal education
of the bachelor vicar and the eldest son of the
squire. Both conspired to distinguish him not only
from the boys of the village but from boys of any usual
type, and, under their influence, he developed all the
subtler powers of his mind, so that at twenty-one, as
he says, without boasting, he felt himself to be at once
outside and above the rest of the human kind of his
generation. Habitually absorbed in a kind of inarticulate
meditation, he learned to pay no attention to the
common life of the world, though he was by no means
contemptuous of it. Simply it did not affect him as
deep as his active mind. I gather that he was not
unsociable, that he joined in games, and that he mixed
with people ; but all these things he did vegetatively
rather than with self-conscious appetite. The normal
world, in fact, passed as a dream in which he himself
was a figure. All that occurred he remembers as if it
were a tale that had been told; but of the feelings he
presumes he must have had he remembers nothing.
When he was twenty-one the vicar died, and the
squire’s son was married ; and then it was that he came
to town on a small income left by the former, and to
take up a post as private librarian to a friend of the
squire. In coming to London, he says, for the first
time, he Felt literally that he ‘was for the first time being
born upon earth. His years in the village, while they
were in no sense a preparation for life, had, nevertheless,
accomplished for him the apparent miracle of postponing
his actual birth until he had reached his majority.
At twenty-one, with much of the knowledge of an
adult of forty, he was, nevertheless, an infant in the
world. You can understand, Congreve-you of all men
-the experiences through which he passed during the
first months of the couple of years he has now been in
London. You were saying, I remember, the other day,
that in the “Mahabharata” heroes were frequently born
full-grown, and you suggested some psychological
interpretation of the stories. Well, here in the case of
Doran is, perhaps, an illustration of it. I simply
report what he said. London, he told me, appeared to
him as not a city composed of villages like his own, but
as a veritable new world full of strange human
creaturesN. ot one of these was really familiar to him.
Among the people of his village he had lived without
making observations or passing judgment. He was
among them like a chicken in an egg amongst eggs.
But here in London everybody appeared to be hatched
out, and he with them but himself newly. Such images
he had, Congreve, as would really amuse you ! Amongst
other notions, he was surprised to find everybody had
only. two legs, that bipedality was a characteristic of
human beings everywhere, in fact. A priori he would
not have been startled to discover some with four. He
was to learn also that human beings are moved by their
appetites, and do not leave these to the vegetable mind
to satisfy, but harness their whole minds to them.
Likewise, he discovered that he himself was occasionally
so moved. He was no longer wholly an automaton in
a dream overlooked by a mind unaware of appetites, but
in some respects the automaton itself. But I must
leave the fuller account of his experiences to be given
one day by himself, and come to the account of what he
calls his three critical decisions. The first of these,
which he made within a month of his arrival, was the
resolution to understand human life at all costs to his
feelings, his tastes, and his predilections. The next
was to avoid no society, and to seek none. The third
was to accept the first guide that offered itself. In these
three decisions, you will see, of course, the trait of the
Fatalism with which you are disposed to charge him;
for all three are acts of submission. The first submits
his native directions to the overlordship of Chance; he
deliberately closes the compass of his instinctive preferences,
and abandons the steering-wheel to allow his
vessel to be blown about at the mercy of the winds. The
second is a particular application of the same doctrine;
and the third invites anarchy to incarnate itself and
guide him. And anarchy came in the form of the girl
I have described. Doran has told me a good deal about
her; but, once more, I must leave you to guess the
details, or to hear them from him. The essential facts
are these. One day he was at a gallery examining some
of the pictures of the newest school, when a party of
people, of whom the girl was one, came in. He was at
once struck by her moon-pale appearance, but he paid
no further attention to her. Suddenly, as he stood looking
at a particularly noisy canvas, the party came up, and
the girl, who was obviously the spoiled child of it, caught
his arm, and whispered, without the least warning, you
may kiss me. She said it without the least roguery, and
in all apparent seriousness. Doran thought for a
moment that he was really an infant among infants, and
his first instinct was to complain to his nurse. Then,
realising that; the scene was real, and that the girl was
expecting a reply, he kissed her in the sight of the
company, and with her own seriousness. Nobody, it
seems, was surprised in the girl’s party, and she passed
on with them as if she had done no more than pause to
gather a flower. But, before going, she said to Doran :
Be here to-morrow at the same time. As per resolution
three, Doran, it appears, was there, and so was the girl,
alone. They talked for a while, and then they
adjourned to a cafe for tea. After tea, they dined
together. And, after dinner, at the girl’s suggestion,
they went to her flat. What happened I need not
recount; but the conclusion was that Doran should go to
live with her.
(To be continued.)