Man and Manners.
An OCCASIONAL DIARY.
WEDNESDAY.-I have copied out the following passages
from two letters which explain themselves :-It’s true,
then, that when you were at Cambridge you flirted with
a girl you wouldn’t have introduced to me or your
sisters. . . . If it had been with some one of my own
kind (a possible friend of mine, that is), I might have
felt jealous, it is true-but your landlady’s daughter,
and, from all accounts, such a one !--Oh, how humiliated
I feel ! . . . Would you not feel humiliated to think
I had allowed a man you would not even play billiards
with to flirt with me-to treat me, that is, as you would
treat me? What sort of value should I attach to your
kisses, if I held kisses so cheap that anyone’s were good
enough ? Would you feel distinguished or flattered in
any way? . . . How could you ! How- could you ! There
must be some radical difference in our standard of
values.
(Answer). . . . You say that if the girl had been of
your own kind, though you might have been jealous,
you would not have felt humiliated. The humiliation
arises, then, from the fact that you suppose I value love
so lightly, I bestow it here, there, and everywhere-on
girls, that is to say, I could not introduce to you. Thus,
I am making you one of a crowd, not a distinguished
exception. And would I not feel humiliated in similar
circumstances, you ask? Very likely, to be frank. But
then, men do expect women to value their kisses, at the
same time that they reserve to themselves the right not
to attach much value to them. Why? Let me try to
explain. . . . You see men have two strings to their bow
---love and work ; women usually have only one-guess
which ! Men, therefore, arc independent of women for
one of their pursuits in life, but women are dependent
for their whole pleasure on men, to whom love is only
a half of life. Men cannot attach the same importance
to it that women do. . . . Men and women are out of
step. . . . They don’t think in the same manner. That
is why, among other things, men recognise no class
distinctionsw hen it comes to flirting. . . . Men, you musn’t
forget, complain that women undervalue. men’s work
women complain that men undervalue. women! Well,
the values may seem unfair--things v. persons -but
there they are, a psychological tradition. . . . I’m afraid
men are a lot of Georgie Porgies--a kiss to-day and
gone to-morrow, . . But women (wives-to-be) may
comfort hemselves with the reflection that a man hasn’t
always kissed a woman because he valued her, but very
often because he didn’t value her. Few men value any
woman till they have loved one. . . . Remember, too,
that was all before I met you, so that, at any rate, from
the man’s point, which I have been trying to explain, I
am exonerated. . . .
Suggestion by Joan for Most Men’s Epitaph,
Georgie Porgie Pudding and Pie
Kissed the girls and made them cry,
But if a girl came out to stay,
Georgie Porgie ran away!
Thursday.--Is it not a paradox that women’s clubs
are notorious for bad service? Being accustomed to
domestic affairs, women, one would think, should get
the best club service in the world. Women’s clubs
should be the despair and envy of men. But not at all.
From the library to the kitchen everything seems to be
squeaking with friction at women’s clubs. Of the
waiters and waitresses in particular may be said what
used to be said of the policeman (until he came under the
control of special constables !) : there when never
wanted, when wanted never there ! The very bells seem
to have been degraded from use to ornament. Then
the catering at women’s clubs is somehow or other a
failure : usually, it is like travelling steerage. And as
for the drinks ! Well, I might have abluted in the
warm soda the other evening. Why, three times why ?
My temeritorious reply is that women are not, and never
will be, really at home in cIubs, for the simple reason
that clubs are men’s device, Women worry dubs, and
clubs, in revenge, worry women. In vain they try to
behave like men : if goes wrong. I defy a clubwoman
to order a whisky without becoming familiar or haughty
with the waiter. As easily might a man choose ribbons
with his wife’s maid without losing caste. The line
between familiarity and haughtiness is seldom
discovered in a woman’s club. A man told me yesterday
that his only souvenir of one of‘ these institutions was
the hearing a member invite a porter to play billiards
with her; while, on the other hand, I have frequently,
heard club servants being “rowed” to humiliation-and
all about nothing ! The extremes alternate. At one
moment the servants are bosom friends : the next they
are dirt.
FRIDAY.--IS the way a man takes off his hat a
barometero f his feelings for the lady involved? If so, then
I judge the following table of deduction correct :-
Total eclipse = Meeting woman for first time.
Partial eclipse = Doesn’t know his own mind.
Slight nudging of brim = Too fond of her for ceremony.
Hat stationary = He loves her.
Correct? How absurd, You say ! But one would
really think the table were right by the way many men
behave Compare their salutation of a girl on introduction
with their address to one they have known for
some time. The fault, I think, arises riot so much from
boorishness as from ignorance of the rites of familiarity.
‘I he man knows the girl so well now. They have
dispensed with so mans of the formalities, why not this
one? I remember the contemptuous amusement of a
man when I suggested lie should take off his hat to his
sister. Hon. ridiculous, he said ; it would be treating
her like a stranger. Like a stranger? Like a woman,
I should have said. Would a brother prefer a sister to
cut him in the street? Yet, what else is she to do unless
she bows and smiles-treats him, that is, as she would
any other man ? And a woman’s bow (though a sister’s)
requires the acknowledgment that is the man’s formal
equivalent: Brothers, I think, ought to treat their
sisters as they would that other men should ; and sisters,
on their side, should train their brothers in the way
other women would have them behave. Even men who
mean well, however, often embarrass you : one man by
taking off his hat like a cinema hero, another like a
comic clown, another like a juggler on a music-hall
stage, another by fingering the brim as though the hat
were stuck with office-paste, another by pushing- back
his hat as though you were July. The fact is, the
hattrick is very rarely performed to perfection. Selfconsciousness?
Perhaps. Rut, again, what would a
man think if a woman made a face at him, say, because
she felt too self-conscious to bow in the ordinary
manner? Men mustn’t exploit self-consciousness as if it
were an inexhaustible virtue.
Saturday.--Suppose we’d better ask her down for a
day or two ?
I suppose we must! Rut what a nuisance! What
on earth shall we do with her?
No wonder poor Violet didn’t enjoy her visit to the
Browns after That ! But the Browns are not the only
people whose invitations have an assumed disagreeable
necessity for their step-mother. And the worst of it is
that many people seem to think that the duty of
hospitality is ended with the issue of an invitation. Really,
lion-ever, it isn’t ! On the contrary, an invitation is
only the formal offer of hospitality. The latter begins
where the former leaves off. The hosts’ first duty,
when they have issued their invitation, is to prepare to
supply what they have promised to give. some
consideration is necessary. The idea of hospitality is that
the guest should be made to feel at home; and yet not
so much at home that she would as soon be ut home.
The difference is that she should en joy all the pleasures
and charms of home with none of the troubles of it. To
this end a good hostess never makes her guest the
spectatoro f a family jar or other earthenware. Even if the
machinery of the house doesn’t run as on oil, the friction
in its workings should be muffled from the visitor’s
hearing. Then the hosts really put themselves into the
position of very special servants, servants, that is, who
take even responsibility off their guests, and anticipate
their wishes and fancies by a rare sympathy. For
instance, it is exceedingly pleasant for a guest to feel
“well come,” and to see the signs of it in little
particularos bviously meant just for her. Trifles are usually
sufficient : a bunch of her favourite flowers ; tickets for
a special concert or theatre; a little arrangement for a
restaurant dinner, or some such adaptation. Perhaps
the smaller the better, provided they are fairly
numerous. For too much of an adaptation of the house
is as bad as too little : overdone hospitality is as
displeasing as underdone. Thus, you must avoid a revolution
of the routine of the house as excessive ; and, on the
other hand, ask more of yourself than to show your
guest into the spare-room of necessity. Somewhere
between is the happy mean. The final test of a
successful visit is that each side wishes to repeat it. But,
in any case, for a guest to be eager to repeat it, is the
tribute to the hosts-whatever the latter may feel about
it.