While the World Wags.
The town of L--- in northern France used to be
famous for its linen-spinning. Now, no one spins there,
and not at all because of the war. No one has spun
there for a round fifty years, since the railway to Y---
was built and took away all the workers. There are
certainly fewer inhabitants than there were two years
ago before the war; when, already, each denizen, from
grandsire to infant, might have had a house to himself
for the taking, had he pleased. Three parts of the
town is nothing but ruins around the vast, decaying
cathedral, as big as Notre Dame de Park, but a ruin
except for a little space around the high altar, where
a sad, proud, starved old priest holds high mass with
never fewer than twelve catidles. He comes queerly
by these candles. He robs Peter to pay Paul by selling,
with many heart-burnings, one and another of the
antique vestments left in the treasury. At sunset, after
a day spent in the English lines, he was dusting the
altar and considering the problem of next Sunday’s
catidles. The battle was coming closer. By Sunday,
by to-morrow, the cathedral might be a hospital. The
last soul who might have bought a habit had long since
fled. Even if the battle went well, there would be no
candles. The Church was without resource. His parish
children and his dear English soldiers would have to
hear mass by the light of the reading-lamp, that is
to say-if he could find in some house a drop of
paraffin !
“God will understand !” he said to himself, but not
cheerfully.
At this moment of mischievous depression, he was
startled by a sight . . . a sight . . . a woman bare as
your hand and beautiful as a fairy, who appeared from
behind the confessional. The priest shouted aloud with
exultation and with horror : the trial of the great Saint
Anthony, tempted in vain, was to be his ? He girded
for battle, standing erect before the altar, brandishing
Iris duster, and crossing himself frantically.
The woman fell on her knees and stayed there for
a full minute sobbing-“O my Father ! O my Father !”
“I am an old fool,” reflected the priest; “this is come
unhappy refugee ! Arise, woman ! go through that door
and clothe yourself in the garments you will find there. ’’
The woman crept away holding her long hair around
her. ‘The priest retired down to the great door which
was never shut because its hinges were long since
broken and the wood had swelled. “Here !” he called,
as she, came out of the little chapel--a nun to the casual
eye, approaching. “Are you not a refugee, my
ctaughter?” he asked, hoping that she was the sort who
would never mention the incident of the duster. She
forgive me ! He knows best what He wants.
replied : “I do not know. I have forgotten everything.
I have been wandering for days and nights. I cannot
think beyond the thunder and lightning. ”
“You have come out
of a bombardment. Poor child! Be at ease! Can
you not remember where you were?’’ While the
Refugee stood in the shadow trying to remember, a crowd
of at least nine inhabitants came running towards the
cathedral, three women and some children. “Go in !”
said the priest, and awaited the crowd. “Will you be
quiet !” he commanded, as they all began to scream
together. “Madame Jossot, what is the matter?” “O,
my Father, the soldiers are coming !”
“The guns !” said the priest.
“How?”
(‘In a big- Red Cross machine. You can sec them from
the hill. ”
“Stay here Madame Jossot. Be off, all you others,
and bring here every thread of linen and flannel and
every candle in your houses. You shall be all lost if
you hide one thread or candle. Calm yourselves, and
prepare, for these are badly wounded that are coming.
. . . Off ! . . . Madame Jossot, come here. Here is a
case for you ! Here is a refugee whom I found all
naked in the Holy Church. I have given her a dress in
the name of God. She
has lost her memory, knows nothing. Good God, I am
wasting time ! Go quick, go, bring the linen and the
candles.
He stood at the door, glancing now along the road
aIready beginning to shake and rumble, and now at the
dark altar. “If they are only in time !” he said-“in
time . . . the candles will belong to the good God. . .
Ah, Jeanne, my child, what have you brought?’’
Take her away to your house.
Madame Jossot, be quick !”
“Six candles, my Father. ’There- !”
The priest rushed into the church. Perhaps he
blessed the candles on the way up the aisle. Doubtless,
he did so. . .
“Fifine, what have you brought ?”
“Three candles, my Father. ” Doubtless he blessed
them on the way up the aisle . . .
“Jacques, what have you brought ?”
“Three candles, my Father,” The aisle echoed,
rumblinagn ds haking. The priest returned to the children :
“Jeanne, Fifine, Jacques---tell your mothers that I will
twitch their chemises off and shame them before the
eyes of the Blessed Virgin if they do not bring along
the linen. Am I to bandage my little soldiers in
candles? Go! Bring back the: linen !”
The Refugee came running, her hands full of candles.
“Mercy !” exclaimed the priest--“this lost innocent
has been seized by the Lord to confound me. God
He is making
a mock of my candles. Bring
linen ! If you bring me another candle I’ll burn you !
Good God, what will my little soldiers do with candles !”
The Refugee came running, her arms full of linen,
sheets , pillow-cases, table-cloths. She flung them down
at the church door and rushed back, her nun’s habit
streaming behind her. The women were coming along
from the square of inhabited houses. The Refugee
like a brigand, seized all their bundles. “Rack ! More !
More !” she shouted, with eyes blazing. The first
automobilec ame heavily into the square. It was full of
men, shrieking and moaning. The women burst into
tears, and dashed into their houses.
Go back, go back !
“Not enough light ! More light !” exclaimed the
surgeon, dodging around the single lantern to pick off
a bloody bandage.
The priest lit the first candle.
“Christ !” muttered the surgeon, glancing for a
desperate instant at the roof--“Send me a light !”
A beetle sat lazily in a clump of dewy dandelions,
these that the positive French inscribe on every menu
of every restaurant “pissenlit,” a really noble salad !
“I cannot imagine why the Lord of Heaven thought
these mortals so wicked,” she reflected sleepily. “They
are not wicked. ’They are only more foolish than any
Divinity who made them would care to own. They
make of Life a battle, and so they have not a joyous
feeling of the same intensity as their sensation of
sorrowfusl ympathy. Rut, in fact, they have only one
natural sorrow, Death. All the rest they have
invented.” She yawned and rose into the sky and flew
away at a terrific speed, over field, over hill, over sea,
and again over hill, and over field into a clump of
dandelions.
Mr. Woods, the steward, came driving along the
road. Driving is not quite the word to describe his
way of getting about the estate. He was afflicted by
a leg with a “Sussex” running wound, and he had a
taste for literature; so to accommodate one and the
other, old Tom the piebald pulled him along at a pace
which jerked neither the leg nor the penny blood.
Unless expressly, it was only at cross-roads that Mr.
Woods lifted his head and shifted the rein, according
as the humour took him to go right, or left, or straight
on. This morning he lifted his head and saw what made
him choke with rage. “Them gipses has been here
agen ! Bailey ! Ho ! Bailey !” Bailey came from a
wheat-field behind a villainous, vile, new cottage, which
made the country look out of place. He walked up at a
quick march for a shepherd.
Nature respects no frontiers but her own.
“Where’s Mr. Rice?”
“I think he’s yonder with the keeper, sir, over the
“Ask him to come here a minute.”
Bailey “seen” the signs of the gipes as he went off.
There’s a hidin’ for you, young Ted,” he mentally
addressed his absent son-“You bin off arter
blackberriess tead of scaring the birds else them gipes
couldna got off s’mornin’ out my knowin’ !”
Mr. Woods was preparing for bigger game. “Rice is
a fool !” expressed his intentions, the clearest of which
was to bully beyond bearing some individual to whom
he might boast of what would never have happened, by
gad! if I had my leg as it was when I whopped the
three gipes, knives and all ! “Look here, again, Rice !”
he began to bawl at sight of the bailiff; “what’ll Sir
Philip say? But I won’tfor
it wouldn’t be pleasant hearin’ for you. Them gipes
has been again and got off I s’pose while you was
asleep. I can’t be everywhere at my age after fifty
years on the land, forty with old Sir Alfred and ten
with Philip.’’
“I set young Ted Bailey scarin’ here,’’ replied Mr.
Rice, looking about. “But raly we can’t stop the gipes
pitchin’ for a night. You know that.”
“Them Baileys ! There’s a bright family you’ve
brought here !
“Oh, not so bad as that,” returned Mr. Rice, stoutly,
for his place depended on his not knuckling down.
“Worse ! There’s Haywood complainin’ of his
things missing. Every other night something goes
off the farm.
“Why, what would Bailey dare do hereabouts with
Haywood’s things ? Haywood’s is right on the
highroady, ou know.”
pheasants. ”
1’11 tell you what he’ll say.
Not one of ‘em earns his milk !”
Who takes ’em?’”
“I’d be a fool not to know that much. . .”
Here Old Tom bolted fix the first and only time in
his life.
The beetle flew off over the wheat-field and far away
towards the gipsy caravan. There was young Ted
Bailey, a regular runagate, chumming up with the
“gipes.” If you do not realise what a crime of a
gallows-bird that is-go, live in a Sussex village. Ted
Bailey was born bad!
“Oi tal ye oi wunt stap wi’ o’ Woods !” he was
declaring. “Oi’ll pull ’is ed orf loike oi dun t’ fish t’other
marnin Yon’s a foony gal fer a gipe ! Wha’ koind o’
a gipe’s she?” The gal, a clean little queen in bright
blue and golden hair, replied :
“I’m a Re-a1 gipsy !
A crowd of small girls laughed, and a crowd of small
lads smoothed off all expression from their faces,
haughty faces, but faces haughty with the last fight for
freedom.
Dirty little crow-scarer !”
“Oi dun moind scarin’ !” stoutly protested Ted
Bailey, adding resentfully : “Oi dun loike Woods ! 0’
Tom, ’e’s moi brother, ’e run away, ’e’s in the militia.
Oi loikes ’im ! ’E’s gone to France, Foightin’ fer Freedom.
Oi believes ’e’s dead, of does !”
Alice Morning.