Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
III.
The story does not end there, I said, Did Doran
tell you any more, or are you not at liberty to continue
the narrative? He told me more, replied Barringer,
and I may repeat it to you. For the first week or two
the girl was as pleased with Doran arid as proud to be
associated with him as if he had fallen from heaven.. It
is true that there were a few scenes, brought about, on
her part, by an uncertain temper ; but as swiftly as they
came they were over, and no trace appeared in her
behaviour. Doran, however, took them more seriously.
Accustomed to valuing his words, never at any time did
he allow himself to say a hitter thing. But the girl,
when the mood was on her, would stop at nothing in
her vocabulary; and often she framed sentences that,
had Doran said them, would have parted the two for
ever. For, as you know, it is not what a woman says to
a man that ever convinces him that all is over ; but it is
what he finally says to her. (I am not sure of that, I
interjected, but let us not mind it now.) All the same,
Doran could not forget her hasty remarks, nor could
he suppose that their repetition by her temper would
not in the end become a habit, the habit a frame of
mind, and the frame of mind a catapult of deeds.
Sooner or later, he thought, the girl would act what
for the moment she only says. And, surely enough,
his expectations began to be realised. From being
content to spend her days and nights with him alone, the
girl first pleaded a desire for music as an excuse for
going out, and in a very little while the two were out
every evening. From concerts to theatres was the
next step, and from the theatre to the music-hall was
only a pace. To the Pamirs night-club was the
matter of a week’s discussion and then the step was
taken. Doran, you may be sure, was reluctant in this
progress; but, true to his resolution number three, he
determined to follow it. At the Pamirs, it seems, the
girl was well known; and Doran’s early experiences
there with her were of a novitiate conducted by a fullfledged
member among members. The men she
introduced cast at him glances of commiseration mingled
with respect. Poor lucky devil, they seemed to say;
and could not decide which feeling was uppermost. One
evening the girl, who so far had conducted herself with
a certain amount of propriety, invited herself to drink ;
and in the excitement of it she forgot her usual
decorum and flirted openly and violently with one of the
men. Doran tells me that his first impulse was to
knock the man down. But he instantly reflected that
he had no right either to assume that the girl was his
or to attribute to the man any worse motives or intentions
than his own. After all, he said, I am not really
in love with her ; nor is she really In love with me. Why
should I behave as if the play were a tragedy instead
of a wretched comedy? However, he could not forget
nor even overlook it. For passion there was in him,
as in most men, an even more sensitive substitutepride.
And his pride was wounded. Once at home he
remarked to the girl that he didn’t like her conduct. I
had no fancy, he said, to go to the place, or to mix
with the men you meet there. It is all the more unfair
of you that, after having gone to convenience you,
you let me down. The girl thereupon drew the cork
from several vials of wrath and poured them upon his
head. My God, he said, as he remembered it, what
a world her words enabled me to enter ! What before
had-been revealed by only a bubbling remark or two
was now shown as if the lid had been taken off a stewpan
of desire, passion, temper, and energy. Yes,
energy. For I was bound to pay homage to the energy
of the girl’s nature. Disagreeable as it was to him,
Doran could not hut admire it. However, he
began to talk-poor fellow-reasonably, as he
thought, but only to stoke the fire of her humour.
Flames burst out from her words, and the little flat
was in conflagration. Suddenly, said Doran, something
went blind in my mind. I felt a hand rise and the
girl fell. down. I
lifted her up and laid her upon the bed. she had not
fainted, nor, as it turned out, was she even hurt. She
lay quietly looking at me with an expression in her
eyes that I shall never forget. It was, if you can
believe me, contempt, mingled with admiration. A cleverer
man in my place, continued Doran, would have turned
this new admiration to account. He would have done
something to extract the contempt, at any rate, and to
leave what admiration there was pure. But I bungled
my opportunity. I began to apologise for having struck
her. Immediately the admiration died away and there
was nothing left but the contempt. Once more she
began her hitter raillery, but this time with my admitted
fault as its victim. In the end I could stand it no
longer, and seizing my coat and hat I was making for
the door when she sprang up and threw her arms about
my neck and weeping kissed me. Oh, Doran, Doran
she said, don’t leave me. She wept and
wept until I was melted to tears myself, whereupon we
agreed that the incident should be forgotten. Rut can
you beleive me, the next evening much the same scene
was re-enacted, but with an even more aggravated
circumstance--she had insisted on leaving me at the
Pamirs tor an hour while she went to a cinema with
another man From this to worse was a matter of nights.
Before very long she took to coining home occasionally
with the milk and by herself. You would suppose, my
dear Barringer, Doran went on, that if not once bit
twice shy, it would be with me a hundred times bit the
hundred-and-first shy. But not at all. For one thing,
I had got over the first bite and the rest were graded
to my developing power of endurance. For another,
I felt myself SO much the stronger in reality that my
pity was aroused beyond the conquest of my pride.
I he girl’s tears were more moving than any I could
shed. For a third thing, it seemed to me that the
strain was equal. If I was miserable so was she; but it
she could stand it so could I. It was therefore a matter
of honour for me to allow her to be tired of it first. For
still another, I was not altogether unpleased to be
having the experience. The bourgeois, I thought, the
dull, the selfish, and even the happy have not
experiencess uch as these. For the unique the unique. The
girl was a lusus naturae. You have seen her, and you
know there is not her like in London. I was therefore
singled out for experiences unknown and unknowable
perhaps to anybody upon the planet. Lastly, there was
my decision to follow my first chosen guide.
Barringer paused at this point, and I asked if he had
come to the end. Yes, he said, “that’s as fur de story
goes.” Now tell me what you make of it. Well, I
said, you have told the story very sympathetically,
perhaps you can make something of it yourself. As for
that, he replied, I would rather have your opinion first.
Certainly you shall if you like, I said, but may I pick up
a few dropped stitches? Tell me, has Doran been
continuing his library work and his reading all this time?
I gather that he has, said Barringer. And does he go
often or only seldom to the Pamir’s now o’ nights?
Seldom, I think he said. And money-do you know if
the girl has money, or does she depend upon Doran?
Why, he said, I think she depends upon Doran, though
I believe her people have money. And is it your
impression that Doran wishes she would leave him of
her own accord? Certainly. But that he has not the
heart or the resolution to force her or to leave himself
while his decision number three holds? Yes, that is
my impression. A last question-did you gather that
Doran is still ever her lover? I’m riot sure, said
Barringer; he neither implied the one thing nor the other.
Thanks, I concluded, the case is complete. Now, my
friend, we have our work cut out.
I saw then that it was my hand.
I love you.
(To be continued.)