A Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
IV.
WHEN I came to think over Doran’s story as told me
by Barringer several pleasing aspects presented
themselvesto me. It would be easy enough, of course, to
regard the whole as a sordid, familiar instance of the
declension of a young idealist in the melee of common
experience, and as such to dismiss Doran on the
strength of it as a silly fool and the girl as an uncommon
strumpet. But against this labour-saving
conclusion there were in conscientious truth some
indubitable facts. To begin with, Doran was unmistakably
not a common young man, and even if his behaviour
appeared to be usual, his motives and accompanying
reflections would certainly make it unusual and, in fact,
distinguished. Had he not, for example, had an early
training that necessarily set his actions out of the
commonr un? And did he not “fall” with no more desire
than would have taken him from one chapter to the
next in a book of romance? Again, it would be
impossible without superficiality to put Doran’s conduct
down to mere folly, for he was of a rare intelligence, and
the errors of intelligence are not follies, but simply
errors. (Forbid that I should think any the less of
them on that account. An error of judgment in an
intelligent mind is a greater sin in my eyes than a folly
in a fool.) And as errors they were at any rate
corrigibleT. hen it was a satisfactory feature of his story
that his eyes were open during its course; and that,
in a sense, he had willed it in his decision number
three. Here was no common victim of allurement falling
to an enemy of whose nature he was unaware.
Doran was no rabbit fascinated by the bright eyes of
a snake. If anything he was an apprentice of his own
will to the art of snake-charming. Once more, it was
gratifying that one of our group had been chosen to be
his confidant in the matter. Sot only was it a proof
of Doran’s awareness of his affinity with us, but it
was evidence that a new crisis was looming in his mind.
Natures like his do not discuss their current experiences
until they are past their zenith. The fact that Doran
could talk objectively about himself and the girl proved,
therefore, that the affair was waning in its ‘subjectivity ;
in a word, it was passing. And I noted, too, in all
Barringer’s narrative, that no word of complaint or
reproach had fallen from Doran on account of the girl.
Whatever she was she was, but Doran imputed no fault
to her. Lastly, it will he observed that he preserved
throughout his feeling of superiority to all the
circumstances. At any moment, he still believed, he could
walk over the chalk circle he had drawn about himself
and be free. I know that to feel free and to be free
are two different things; and that people often feel
free when, in fact, they are not free. But Doran, I
believed, was not one of these. He knew himself too well
to deceive himself unless deliberately.
We had still, however, to think over what was to
be done. On the one hand, if Doran were really nearing
a crisis it might be best to leave him to break his own
shell. The danger of premature hatching is an
enfeebled life, particularly in the matter of will. But,
on the other nand, the hardiest chick requires external
warmth to encourage it out and in which to be received.
Should we, I asked Barringer, or should we not, be doing
more harm than good in interfering directly in Doran’s
personal affairs? Was it not best to continue our own
business of discussion, with merely a special adaptation
of the subjects to Doran’s present interests?
After reviewing the pros and cons-of which the ac
count might be tedious-we agreed that our second
suggestion was the wiser; and I therefore set about the
preparation of my paper to be read at the next meeting
when Doran would be present.
My subject was Fate; and I may as well indicate here
the ideas my paper contained. Fate, I began, is of all
ideas the one upon which least illumination has been
cast by modern thought. Somehow or other modern
minds shirked the. subject, and chiefly, I thought, from
apprehension of wounds to their pride. It seemed
humiliating to men who have done what modern men
have done to feel compelled to admit, not merely a
share of the credit to Fate, but the whole of it. What
were men or in what tree could their pride nest if Fate
were the all in all of action and events? But this
shrinking- from facing a menacing proposition was,
perhaps, no more than cowardice, and not even prudence.
For it might be that far from wounding our indispensable
pride (and pride of a kind is necessary if we arc
to live at all), an examination at close quarters of the
real, as distinct from the apparent, nature of Fate
would reveal us a friend where we suspect a foe.
Certain it is that men in the past who have found the idea
of Fate lost no dignity, but, on the contrary, gained
by the experience. To have faced Fate was, in fact,
like facing Death, a possible condition not of the loss
of real pride, but of the loss of false pride, and hence
to the establishment of the real. Looking at it in this
way, and without shading our eyes, what could we
descry in the lineaments of Fate? In the first place, we
could draw a distinct line between that section of Fate
that is history, and the section that is still to be written
in events. Of all the past it is true to say that it
cannot now be otherwise. No exertion can touch it, no
wish can make it other than it is, and not omnipotence
itself can change it. And it is presumably for this
reason that the wise never mourn for the past. That
section of Fate, however, that remains to be unfolded
in the future presents some new aspects. In the first
place, it is not known or even knowable, All our
professed submission to the future is therefore based upon
the false assumption that we know or can know what
the future will be. And this assumption is none the less
absolutely unfounded for having the relative foundation
of deduction from experience establishing no matter
what degree of probability. The probable differs in
kind from the certain; and while of past Fate we can
be certain, of future Fate, even in the most favourable
circumstances, we must needs be absolutely uncertaln.
Another differential feature of Fate future lies in the
fact that exertion can determine it ; or, at any rate, can
appear to determine it. Even the most convinced of
the freedom of the will cannot delude himself into the
belief that his exertions can determine the past. What
belief men have, therefore, that they can determine the
future is nut necessarily the outcome of pride in their
free-will, since, if the grounds were the same, the same
pride would create in them the delusion that the past
no less than the future is within their control. It
follows, I think, that in actual fact the two sections of
Fate arc different in character ; even if in no other
respect than this : that past Fate is insusceptible of the
illusion of free-will, while Fate future is susceptible of
it. But is the difference no more than lies in this susceptibility?
Is it true that, appearances apart, Fate
future is actually as unalterable as Fate past? And
that our belief that it is not, however readily it can be
entertained, is an illusion? As to this, I reply that an
answer in absolute certainty is impossible. We
cannot? that is, be absolutely certain that either Fate
future is already determined, or that it is determinable
by our will. All that we can do is to be pragmatic
about it, and to be equally prepared for one or the other
final demonstration. Exactly as a pure agnostic
refrains equally from denying or affirming the existence
of God, but lives, if he is wise, as if either proposition
may turn out to be true; so our true fatalist, looking
to the future, will refrain from denying that Fate future
is either determined or determinable, but he will act
as if either may be true. But it will be seen that this
attitude appears to involve us in an antimony of spirit :
for, on the one hand, we are obliged by it to act as if
Fate future were determinable by our will; and, on the
other hand, we are required to act as if it were not. To
act as if it were is, however, precisely not to act as if
were not; and we are thus bought to the dilemma
that while reason persuades us that either view of
Fate future may be true, and hence that both must be
prepared for, to prepare for one is not to prepare for
the other. How are we to reconcile the conflict? My
answer is that it is to be reconciled by the distinction
we have already made as regards time. For when
shall we know absolutely which one of the two views
of Fate is correct? Plainly only when the event has
passed. But by that time the event will be Fate
indeed; and it will no longer be in the future. Then,
indeed, we shall be able to say of the event that it is
Fate; but even then we shall not be able to say that,
from the standpoint of the moment before it, it was
Fate. Fate was; Free-will is. And only as the events
prove shall we be able to say of Fate future what in it
was; and never shall we be able to say what in it is or
will be. Dare we now advance a further step in our
differentiation of Fate past and Fate future? We have
seen in what respects they actually differ; and that the
dividing line is the Present. But of such different
things ought there not to be different names? Why
call by the same name events past of which our
knowledgem ay be absolute, and events future of which
knowledge is impossible? Suppose that to the past, the
no longer even theoretically determinable, we leave the
name of Fate-what name is appropriate to the futurethe
at least possibly determinable? I suggest the
name of Will. What has been is; what will be is not,
but will be. And as a final reflection on this part of the
subject I hazard this metaphor: Fate is the corpse of
Will. As I see it, Free-will is a spirit in perpetual
materialisation. As it flies into the unknown, unknowable
future it leaves behind it a trail of known events.
These, since they are created, we call Fate. But will
is the creator.