An Occasional Diary.

Now gaze on this picture. If last week I
referred to the duties of hosts, the obligations
of guests are no less, and it is usually the
observance or non-observance of these obligations
that decides into which class of guests you
put your visitor-among those you would gladly ask
again, or among those you would not. There is no
need to enumerate examples of the former kind. The
latter are their opposites. On this list-oh, tremble !
-comes the woman who : keeps comparing her own
miserable lot with her hostess’s more prosperous
circumstances-simply loves a quiet evening at home and
spends it yawning like a chasm-adores children, little
ducks ! (horrid little wretches, re-arranging a
disarranged hair)-doesn’t practise the art of disappearing
for an hour or so (to write letters, say), thus allowing
her hostess to go off duty for a time-makes herself at
home (with your husband)-distempers the servants by
leaving her room the picture of an Amazonian skirmish
-a skirt impaled here, a blouse entrenched there-hairpins
bespattered about like shrapnel-a ribbon
entanglement-a slipper on outpost duty under the bednight
garments flung out like a street casualty-(I’ve
been accustomed to servants, I have: none of your
penurious little neatnesses for me!). On the same
black list comes the man who : preys on his host as
though an unlimited service of ,cigars, stamps, whisky,
petrol, horse flesh, was the legitimate booty of a weekend
raid on a friend-dams and muddies the stream of
dinner conversation with tales of his own derring deeds
-talks with an aim to establishing his personal
acquaintance with every name in Debrett-makes
himself ;it home (with your wife)-is so determined to have
a good time himself that no one else has time to have
one-- And so on, till, indeed, I can well imagine a
score of reasons why it was said of a notorious man of
letters that he had stayed in every country house in
England-once !
Tuesday.--It is still the fashionable thing to talk of
the delights of travelling, but very often travelling is no
delight, no thanks to the exceptional people permitted
to travel loose-for I must say the average person is
an extremely good-humoured companion. Against the
obnoxious minority, I suggest a Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Passengers, membership of which
should impose the duty to eject from carriages all who :
prefer to keep their portmanteaux on the seat, thank
you !-always want the window something that it isn’t
-keep darting hole-picking eye-shots at you from over
an ever-rustling newspaper rampart- talk so loudly that
no one else can either read or talk-or, the other side of
the case, tell someone exactly what they think of her
for not talking more quietly, thus ensuring that everyone
will now be too uncomfortable to enjoy either reading
or talking-lie in wait to-pick a bone with you, which if
it isn’t there shall be made-sit on the small clog or pair
of gloves you left guarding your seat-keep tittering
to themselves, looking up from their book to see
whether others are appreciating the joke-and if not,
why not ?-keep shaking up their parcels as though they
were invalids-hurl themselves, when they want to get
out, at the carriage door without attempting to open it
-have a row with their porter, ticket-collector, paperboy,
tea-basket boy, dinner steward and guard-stand
at infinite attention before your corridor windowendeavour
to conscript you into an argument about the
weather, the shocking railway service, the terrible war :
Well I could have told Kitchener war was coming I
always said it was ask my daughter but there you
can’t teach people if they won’t learn. Aroint, the
whole lot of them! Where is their respect for the
traditional romance of travelling ? People are not
parcels, neither is travelling only a means for the
conveyance and transportation of carcases. A journey
should be a pleasing, not a disgusting, occupation for
the mind.
WEDNESDAY.-I have a friend, who shall be nameless,
whose excessive kindness is the unkindest cut of all.
She insists on paying for your meal and hers, though
you and she know that you have the greater possessions.
She insists on dragging you to a theatre she
declares you will enjoy-you happening to hate
theatres. She insists on re-arranging or tidying your
room when she is admittedly too tired to move (and
you too busy to want her to !). She insists on taking
you away for a week-end, afterwards stating in public
that, of course, she didn’t want to go, but knew a
change was just what your health needed. She insists
on staying up till dawn, patching your blouse, which
you assure her you will never wear again. If you dare
to feel cold she instantly thrusts her own coat upon you
and begins coughing. If you come in late she gets out
of bed without telling you, and just as you are going
off to sleep wakes you up with a nice glass of hot milk,
you happening to hate nice glasses of hot milk. If
you have a headache, she, with a much worse one
herself she owns (but never mind me !), humiliates you by
much and unwanted kind servitude. Or, unbeknown
to you, she will invite someone you particularly didn’t
wish to see, to meet you at dinner, or will send your
unauthorised love to someone you have, for very good
reasons, long ceased to write to. NOT to disturb you
the tiniest bit, she will disturb you permanently by leaving
the room quietly to martyrise herself by sitting
without a fire somewhere. She will upset your nerves
for a week by coming on tiptoe into your room and
standing like a bogey behind you at the piano. On
another occasion she will shut all the windows in your
room so that you wake with a violent headache you are
debarred in courtesy from complaining about. Or
again, if you are going away, she, being considerably
your weaker, will shame you by carrying your trunk
to the ’bus when you really meant it as an excuse for a
taxi. She insists on seeing you off in spite of
remontrance(sy ou having arranged a twosome at the station
you particularly didn’t wish spoiled by a third !). While
you arc away she writes every day imploring you to do
the same, if only a line to assure her you still love her !
And, as like as not, she pays you a surprise visit,
upsetting all your own plans,. and at the cost to herself
(she tells you) of money and time she can ill afford ! No
wonder if my friend suffers the same praise as the man
of whorn it was said : He hasn’t an enemy in the world,
but his friends can’t stand him ! Really, if unselfishness
is taught as a virtue to the selfish, I wish someone
would teach selfishness to the unselfish. Not until the
righteous cease from troubling will the wicked be at
rest !
THURSDAY.-If it were not for the feminine label on
the cover it would usually be difficult to decide whether
the writer of a book is a woman or a second-rate man.
For the fact is that women writers’ standards of values
are so similar to men’s that no variety of gender is to
be found in the outlook anti matter of their books. It
was hoped that the entry of women into art would
produce a new factor in culture. We had gazed our fill
at men’s women anti men’s men. It was for women to
hold up the other side of the mirror and give us the
woman’s view. Now, said Art, we shall see a new world
peopled with women’s men and women’s women. But
has that hope been justified,?--by scarcely a paragraph.
For there are still no women novelists, but only men
novelists disguised as women. Turn to the recent
novels by women, and will you see one woman’s picture
of life? Ransack the work of past women-writers, and
with the exception, perhaps, of Jane Austen and one
or two others (whom I cannot recall !) You still will find
no woman’s vision of man, woman or thing. Is it that
men writers have been so successful in their portrayal
of women and women’s ideas that they have left
nothing for women to accomplish ? Scarcely-judging
by women’s contemptuous criticisms of their efforts,
But while I hear women novelists laugh at the women
drawn, say, by Meredith, and know some who poohpooh
even Shakespeare’s heroines as boys in women’s
clothing, they still have made no attempt to correct
them by example. On the contrary, they are still
content to follow slavishly in men’s pen-prints, imitating
without improving. Why? Is it to draw men’s
approval and praise? I appeal for a new race of
women-writers to right the wrong, and to portray
people and things as women see them. Men have
written themselves up to such an uncorrected extent
that we (and they) have got into the habit of taking
them at their own value, as though their standards were
rules for the Day of Judgment. Again, I say, there are
no women-writers. If there had been--hear me while I
whisper-this diary of mine would never have been
made-public !