Man and Manners.
AN OCCASIONAL DIARY.
FRIDAY.-I wonder which I prefer (for they are
different)-the manners of the bachelor or the manners
of the married man. The compleat bachelor often appears
a more interesting and perhaps more charming person
than his married brother. He has had more time to
devote to his personality, and the result is-I refer to
the successful bachelor-a man of more accomplishments
than the married man whose domestic
duties often rob him of opportunities for
self-development. From the woman’s point of
view, in particular, there are, moreover, possibilities
in the bachelor, and a suggestion of romance
about his singleness. The competent bachelor is thus
sometimes a notable success in society; and being then
mistaken for the rule instead of the exception he disposes
people to over-value bachelordom. But in truth
few men can remain bachelors and human; for, under
no diurnal necessity to exercise consideration and sympathy,
the bachelor, more often than not, loses sensitiveness
and becomes impenetrable to the ideas and
feelings of others. The competent married man, on
the other hand, under the continual necessity of sympathy
with others, grows in a kind of clairvoyance; he
becomes accessible to delicate impressions. He has
plenty of practice. If, for example, his wife is moody,
he has first to find the cause and then to discover a
remedy. And a good deal of tact is necessary for both.
Your bachelor, of course, has no need to exercise ingenuity
in diagnosing diseases, or for concocting cures.
There is a quicker remedy for dealing with the complaints
of housekeepers than of relatives. And even
sister$ require less finesse in management than wives
and mothers-in-law. No; summing up the cases, I
shall give judgment in favour of the married man.
Every-work-a-day virtues such as his-I refer, of
course, to the competent married man who possesses
them-are not acquired without much toil and tribulation,
the equivalent of which you do not pass through
in bachelordom. And although its compensations may
be many, the domestic life is the most difficult of allboth
for men and women.
SATURDAY.--One of the aesthetic consequences of the
war may be fewer ornaments worn by women. If so,
and this should lead to the substitution of quality for
quantity, what an advance in the art of personal decoration
! Some women seem to think that so long as their
gross total yield of jewellery (never mind the quality)
exceeds that of their rivals they stand supreme. But
let me delicately insinuate that ornamentation by quantity
will never produce any effect but the wrong one.
Women are not shop windows, nor yet, I trust, so
devoid of natural charm that they must needs light
themselves up like street-lamps for moths. Is a woman
so valueless herself that she must supplement herself
by as extensive a display of jewels as she has space to
exploit? Oh, fine feathers ? Overdoing jewellery is,
of course, as vulgar as overdoing dress. The better the
But its virtues are beatific.
fewer is the rule for the proper wearing of ornaments
(and the best ornaments of all are often those that are
not there !). One or two good ornaments are usually
sufficient; for it is the character of quality that it can
dispense with quantity. Quality, in fact, can stand on
its own legs. The line between quality and quantity is
the Rubicon of the art of ornamentation. But another
question is of the right ornament. Exquisite taste is
needed to suit the ornament exactly to the person.
Some hands, for instance, require rings, others simply
cannot endure them. Some necks need a halter, rather
than a scarf; there are faces which look well when
cornered with earrings-and so on. It must be
rememberetdh at the wearing of ornaments is a barbaric
custom which only rare taste can adapt to the values of
culture.
MoNDAY.---I have discovered that Elsie, who the other
day said that any old dress would do for home wear,
doesn’t think her husband worth the pains of concealing
the implied disrespect. At lunch to-day she excused
him to her servant for knocking over a glass. Clumsy
thing, she snapped, why don’t you look where you’re
going? I should think Ellen is sick of washing out the
cloths you spoil ! From the quiet way he smiled
Elsie’s husband is accustomed to being “rowed” before
servants. I fear Elsie is a bad case. But there are
other women I know who are nearly as bad. They will
humiliate their husbands before servants, and again
before guests, by sulking, complaining, crying, being
rude, nagging, correcting, criticising, ignoring, neglecting.
Nor would it be fair to omit the other side of the
case-the husbands who correct, tease, complain of,
criticise, ignore, neglect their wives in public. It is
very difficult to make such people, people, that is, to
whom the practice is possible at all, mend their
manners. But perhaps for their own sakes they would try
to reform if they knew what others think of them. So
let me tell them. Is she really so ill-bred? Is he
really such a boor? There is no clause in the marriage
vows that gives either husband or wife the right to
humiliate the other in public, and the public has the
good manners to resent being made spectator of so
unmannerandunwomannerly an exhibition.
TuESDAY.-The first man to whom the modern form
of hotel occurred may have thought he was going to
do away with home life in offering people a home from
home. Events have proved him wrong if ever he
thought so. An hotel is not a home, or rather what it
is is a kind of communal home in which everything is
in common, and where the master of the house is the
servant of all, or, say, like the father of a family with
neither full right nor complete means to correct his
charges. Bad hotel manners arise from carrying the
habits of the home proper into the hotel. For, from
its definition, it is wrong to treat an hotel as home, and
to behave in it as you would behave in your own house.
The proper standard of hotel manners can only be
arrived at by a happy discrimination of the line between
permissible freedom and aggravating licence. You can
correct the waiter, for example, but you are not entitled
to abuse him in public, for he is not your waiter, he is
public property. You must not make a noise in the
corridors of an hotel, for the rooms on either side are
not your rooms. You mustn’t absorb more than your
share of service, for if you do there may not be
enough to go round. You mustn’t play the piano if by
doing so you disturb someone else’s peace. You mustn’t
-simply mustn’t-stay an hour in a bathroom-it is not
your bathroom-other people may want to use it.
Fires, tennis balls, billiard cues, windows, armchairs,
papers, ink, air-everything in an hotel is communal,
and to consume more than your just share is a breach
of hotel rules and good manners. Even the visitors
themselves are “common,” and it seems to me you
must neither expect unintroduced people to talk to you
nor yet resent their doing so; you must neither insist on
talking to them nor yet refuse to do so. A home is a
private house; an hotel is a public house, and visitors
must adapt their private ways to its public laws,