Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
V.
ON the evening of the reading of my paper on Fate
and before the meeting Barringer sent me a note to
say that he had invited Doran to meet me in his rooms
after the discussion. The discussion for this reason,
perhaps, was brief, and Doran took no part in it. Early,
therefore, we adjourned to Barringer’s rooms with the
feeling, in my mind at any rate, that important
business was on hand. If anybody should think at this
confession of mine that I was simply curious about
Doran’s affairs and wished to nose into his secrets ; or,
if, again, it should be thought that there was
somethingi ndecent in the prospective discussion amongst
friends of the feminine complications of one of them;
I will only say that modern individualism has brought
friendship to a strange and ignoble pass. In earlier
days, it is certain, knights of the same order knew each
other’s affairs down to the smallest detail; their
experiences, in fact, like everything else that was susceptible
of communication, were held in common. And in days
only a little later the custom of inviting the judgment
of tried friends upon matters of love was only less
common than nowadays it is to consult them about
money. Be absent, then, the vulgar notion that in
meeting Doran for an intimate talk we or he were
transgressing the rules either or friendship or of chivalry.
For assuredly it was friendship to listen to him, and to
offer him our best advice; as it was not unchivalrous
to take the girl into sober and serious account as well.
Doran was very frank in his statement of the case;
and, having assured himself that Barringer, as already
described, had reported him to me correctly, he opened
the sequential problems in the following order. First,
he said, let me say that I am much indebted to Congreve
for his paper of this evening. In particular, I have
been enlightened on the relation of the Will to Destiny.
For some years now, as Barringer has told you, I have
been under the conviction that Fate future is determined
by- Fate past without the intervention of the Will. I
omitted to note that the very consequences of Fate past
are only consequences in so far as they are willed from
moment to moment. That is a great burden off my
mind. But, at the same time, it involves a fresh
responsibility. For if, in fact, the Fate future is, for all
we know to the contrary, the willed continuation of
Fate past, it is either in our hands to make it what we
choose; or, at least, we ought to behave as if it were.
It is just at this point, however, that the difficulty arises.
In regard to my personal problem, I have now for the
first time to make up my mind whether, in fact, my
conduct is due to Fate, or whether it is my will; and this,
in particular, as regards the future. Do I will to
continue now that I know I am not fated to continue? Or
was my attribution of Fate to events a mere blind for
the exercise of my will in a direction contrary to my
judgment? Candidly, I do not know at this moment.
I should like to consider it.
Shall Barringer and I reply as you go along? I asked.
Or would you prefer to talk yourself clear? By all
means, he said, reply au courant. It may save all of
us a good deal of obscurity. Then, said I, forgive me
for saying so, but in your last remarks you appear to
me to have put as a single problem a number of distinct
problems that ought to be separated. You say that
you are in doubt, now you are convinced that Fate
future is no other than your own will, whether, in fact,
your will is not identical with Fate. In short, you
doubt whether you ought not to stay in your present
situation, because it is your will to do so, and in spite
of the fact that it appears to be fate as well. But is it
really your will to remain there? For, if so, the further
questions must be asked : what do you expect to gain
by it? or, in the alternative, what do you hope to avoid
by it? To be perfectly truthful, it is my opinion that
one or the other is involved for you, or, perhaps, both.
You will to remain as you are, that is, either because
you hope to gain something, or because you wish to
avoid something, or both.
Doran meditated for a moment or two, and then he
said: I think you are right. I do expect, in a vague
way, to gain something; and I do hope, in a perfectly
definite way, to avoid something. The second you can
probably guess, or, at least, Barringer can. The first,
however, I will tell you. I expect, I suppose, to gain
experience.
Ah, now, I said, we are back on the subject of our
earlier meeting. You remember, perhaps, that I said
to you that Stoicism is of two varieties. (Oh, I
remarked and remembered that, he interjected.) But,
similarly, I went on, it appears to me that experience is
of two kinds. What are they, he asked? The
desirablaen d the undesirable, I said. But is not all experience
desirable, he asked? If knowledge is the end of
life, and experience is the condition of knowledge, is
not all experience necessary? Knowledge, I replied, is
not the aim of life in our philosophy; nor has it been,
I believe, in the best philosophies of the world. Like
experience, indeed, knowledge also is of two sorts : the
desirable and the undesirable ; and the right discrimination
of these is Wisdom. But how, he asked, are they
to be discriminated? What is the criterion of good
and bad experience, or good and bad knowledge? I
can hardly lay down an infallible rule, I replied, but I
will put my best mind into the attempt. The criterion,
it seems to me, is a dual affair, consisting, on the one
side, of an a priori standard, and, on the other, of
results a posteriori. For instance, if before incarnating
upon this planet (I assume you believe that man is a soul
disguised as an animal? Doran nodded assent) you
had been asked whether your choice was to experience
the actuality of the Good, the True and the Beautiful,
undoubtedly you would have said that it was. And
equally if you had then been offered the experience of
their contraries you would, if you could, have rejected
it. But does this not establish on one leg, at least, the
criterion we are seeking to set up? For, by easy
admission, we all agree that, given an absolute choice in
the matter, our vote would have been for the experience
alone of the Good, the True and the Beautiful. And
this is confirmed, I think, by our common conduct in
general. For, as a matter of fact, nobody intentionally
pursues the contraries of these; and only pursues them
unintentionally when he mistakes them for their positive
opposites .
I agree, said Doran, and now set up the other leg.
The other leg, I replied, is a deduction from experience
itself. Is it, or is it not a fact, in your experience, that
all knowledge or all experience is equally conducive to
the realisation of the Good, the True and the Beautiful?
Certainly not, he said. But there are, on the other
hand, distinctly different consequences flowing from the
different kinds of knowledge and experience? Yes,
Doran agreed. Some knowledge and experience, then,
while not ceasing to be knowledge and experience,
nevertheless do not lead to desirable consequences (I
mean the realisation of the trinity referred to), while
other knowledge and experience do? For instance, is
is not plain that an associate of animals, or of certain
kinds of business men, or of the worser sort of parson,
or of inferior people generally, acquires both knowledge
and experience which yet bring him no wisdom? And,
on the other hand, is it not equally plain that a total
ignorance of these things is compatible with wisdom ?
Doran once more agreed. Can we not, then, distinguish
the consequence of one sort of experience from the
consequence of the other sort by names, and call the fruit
of evil knowledge cunning, and the fruit of good
knowledge wisdom ?
Well, if you
agree about that, I concluded, nothing more is to be
Is that not the case?
An excellent distinction, said Doran.
said. For experience in general is no longer desirable
in general; but we ought to distinguish and to choose
between the experience that leads to cunning and the
experience that leads to wisdom. There is no doubt
what your choice will be.
I am much obliged to you, Congreve, Doran said
sincerely; and I confess that I was much gratified by
his compliments. God knows, I may have talked
nonsense; but God knows it was not my wish to do so. At
least, I hope that when I come to be conversed with in
any trouble of my own, my friend will spare as few
pains as I did.
There now remained for our consideration the second
motive of Doran’s will-the will to avoid something.
And since he had assumed that Barringer might guess
the occasion, I left the subject in the latter’s hands. And
very capably he conducted his case, as the following
account will prove.
May I guess the cause, he began, to be a matter of
persons-you wish to avoid hurting somebody ? Right
you are, said Doran, I thought you could guess. You
are afraid, in fact, Barringer continued, that if you
change your present situation of your own accord you
will bring a good deal of trouble upon the girl? Yes.
And you think she is the weaker? I’m afraid I do.
And, therefore, you would rather the separation were
of her bringing about than of yours, though you would
wish it were brought about? Quite right, said Doran.
But suppose, Barringer asked, that the girl left of her
own accord and came to grief for want of some
provision on your part-would you blame yourself? Not,
I think, if she really left of her own free will, Doran
replied. But you would if she left of yours alone? I
should. Then the trouble with you is not what becomes
of the girl, but your responsibility in the matter? Of
course. Suppose, however, that after separating from
her, you discovered that she was better off for it, would
you be sorry? On the contrary, said Doran, I should
be delighted. But you dare not take the chance that
this will ensue from your deliberate act? That is what
I feel. Well, suppose, again, that you would be
convinced that your association with the girl is not only
bad for you, but worse for her-would you then find it
difficult to take the plunge? No, returned Doran, but I
should take some convincing. Undoubtedly, said
Barringer, and may I begin? Certainly. You promise not
to be angry if I speak my mind? Congreve, I may say,
gave me a dressing down once upon a time. I am not
over it yet. At least, I promise, said Doran, to be angry
with myself first. All’s well, then, said Barringer. Here
beginneth.
(To be continued