Sir,-I was not altogether surprised that ‘ ‘ K. B.” did
not reply to Mrs. Beatrice Hastings’ letter of the 27th ult.
Mrs. Hastings’ method of attacking the women’s movement
to-day is as violent and personal as her method of
defending it used to be. The new convert, we know, is
often indiscreetly zealous; but, from Mrs. Hastings’ case,
we may conclude that the new recusant is even more
furious. From a lady with ‘ ‘ more than a common talent
in literature,” terms like ‘ ‘ infuriated female,” “ Mrs.
K. B. and Co.,” are surely scarcely to be expected. Mrs.
Knoggs on the stairhead is capable of such abuse, with
no talent for literature whatever. And the insinuation
that “ K. B.’s ” pleasantry about the harem was a serious
charge, and required an explanation struck me as being
heavy for a wit and a poet. But, after all, I hare only
a small concern with Mrs. Hastings’ new and regrettable
style of controversy; the question is whether the views
she now maintains are right. I t i s no assurance that they,
are right that Mrs. Hastings sacrifices her style in their
defence. Quite the contrary. One’s style, as your writer
of “ Present-Day Criticism ” is never tired of preaching,
is at its best when one is most sincere, truthful, and
sure. Judged by this canon alone, Mrs. Hastings would
appear prima facie to be at least less near the truth to-day
than she was some time ago. But what are her ideas?
At the risk of a reply from her in the tone of her reply
to “ K. B.,” I will venture a summary of her views as
I have collected them from her recent feminist, or rather
anti-feminist, fulminations : (a) Women in general are the
inferior sex. (b) Anything that men give them is good
enough for them, and should satisfy them; if they ask
for more, they are impudent hussies. (c) As well as being
intellectually inferior, they are morally of a lower order
than men, being cruel, incapable of justice, greedy, and
grossly selfish. (d) Yet this state does not call for an
remedy, either from women or from men; it is inevitable
and serves women right. Being unfitted by nature for
culture, culture would only be degraded by being forced
on them. In fact, women are “ twoads, and ought to
be ( ‘ larned ” to be such. (e) The women’s movement
to-day is a mere impertinence; women are asking for
votes when in fact even marriage is too good for them.
(f) Men should neither marry them nor enfranchise them,
but simply keep them in their place. (g) Every woman
in private life is a drab or a cat; every woman in public
life is pretentious or a minx. (h) Motherhood itself is
no more than an animal affair with women, and they
ought never to have charge of children. In short, (i)
women as a sex are not fit to live.
If my summary of what I have gathered are Mrs. Hastings’
views on the subject of women appears selfcontradictory,
I claim that the fault is hers, not mine.
Chapter and verse for every item could easily be given
from your pages. The conclusion forced on any candid
reader is that Mrs. Hastings is so blind with fury about
something or other (probably with herself for having
taken the movement au grand serieux in the early days)
that she now hits out blindly with her pen, and says
anything that she believes mill hurt. But I venture to
say that such tactics are as inconsiderate in regard to
her new cause as they hare proved to be in regard to the
cause she abandoned. There is, we are told, a method
in the militant Suffragettes’ madness, though it is hard
for a mere male to discover it. Similarly, Mrs. Hastings
will doubtless contend that there is a method in her antifeminist
madness. I confess I should be glad to have it
pointed out to me. But first, I maintain, Mrs. Hastings
has to explain the coarseness of her method of controversy
on this subject ; secondly, a theory to cover the apparent
contradiction of her views is demanded; thirdly, since
Mrs. Hastings does not, I presume, deny that she herself
IS a woman, an apologia for her own sex would be
interesting. I conclude, in short, that, after her long
series of anti-feminist writings, an explanation of her
( ‘t heory ” of the relation of woman to man and society
is obligatory upon her.