Mrs. Hastings replies : It seems to me that my critic
is chiefly incensed at the vulgarity of my reply to
‘ ‘ K. B.’s ) ’ literally impertinent remark about the harem.
He makes no note of the rest of my Setter, which he
cannot very well call coarse or furious, and I cannot very
well reply about everything I have ever said. I feel that
any defence I may make of my opening paragraph will
accuse me. Only audacity might snatch me out of this
scrape. Yet I am not just now inclined to be audacious.
My original letter, to which ( ‘ K. B.” retorted-not re592
plied-contained, I think, a very reasonable idea, namely,
that whereas women are asking to be freed by Act of Parliament,
freedom may ody arise from within themselves.
This is certainly an old truth for both men and women;
but so far as I offered it anew, I addressed women. What
was there in the letter to suggest that I ought to b e in a
harem ? No man would have re lied to me like K. B.”
Such a reply could have sprung from nothing higher than
a materialistic and grubbing female intelligence. I hit
back under the feeling of exasperation at the bore
of replying, knowing whatever I might write,
nothing but solid, caste femininity would touch
‘ ‘ K. B.” Unless Mr. Hirst can prove from her impertinent,
trite, and jargonistic epistle that her silence
is due to refinement, I shall perish, believing that she fled
because I had said the same sort of thing as would have
shut her up had we been two squaws squabbling before a
wigwam. In displaying publicly, I was vulgar, and for
this I offer to my friends no, excuse, but an apology.
Mr. Hirst charges me with personal feeling in my attacks
on women. Personal feeling, which arises from
experience, is honest enough, and legitimate. The views
with which Mr. Hirst credits me are certainly mine by
endorsement; but I did not first establish them-they are
as old as society. I have small re-ason to respect women,
individually or as a‘ sex ; but much $0 despise them. I
take it that Mr. Hirst’s reference to me as a wit and a
poet is not ironical, “ a pleasantry ” as he understands
pleasantries. At my rate, I profess to be a poet. Now
in this matter,m en have frequently commended my work ;
but as for momen-well, if it were to be proved, as it has
been stated, that women actually detest gift in other
women, I might offer considerable testimony. Women
invariably prefer my inferior work. They have persistenth
discouraged my best, from the time when I was inexplicably
abused as you, Sir, are aware, for my tentative
“ Oriole Notes,” to the publication of my “ Ode on Friendship,”
when two women wrote-one to say that she would
reserve judgment, the other to hope I wasn’t becoming
“pompous. There was a danger” Such slights from
women make the commonplace of every gifted woman’s
autobiography.
Mr. Hirst’s summary of my views is only wrong where
to be wrong matters most He invents contradictions
for me, Let me correct his paragraph as
I would have it stand. (a) Women are the inferior
sex; (6) the civilisation that men have made is good
enough for women, and these, Enable to add a single contribution,
should be by all and every means prevented
from destroying what they might in no way re-create;
women’s interests are in preserving peaceful civilisation,
since in times of riot and war, females, unless related to
very powerful men, become physically regarded a’s
philosophy regards them-as common : when, as in their
recent exploits, they may show themselves contemptuous
of the ideals on which they must still rely for anything
like honorable security, they are impudent hussies ; (c)
because of their intellectual inferiority, they are morally
of a lower order than men, being cruel, incapable of justice,
greedy and private-minded; only a high type, even
among men, is humane, just, liberal. and devoted to ideals,
but the spirit of these qualities is theirs as a sex, and if
every man living to-day were decadent-that would not
alter the fact that men created, named, and ceaselessly
recorded the humanities : (d) women’s present moral state
certainly calls for a remedy, and as their welfare depends,
like that of animals, on preserving sound instinct, and on
tradition, they should discourage among themselves whate
v e r threatens these : the white slave agitation was a
proof that women’s moral state is rather lower than is
safe for them and the world at large ; such unrestrained
mania‘ for brutal and dangerous purification by punishment
has not been loose in England this many a day, and
the reaction will finally fall not upon the panda- and the
prostitute who are really immune from all but ephemeral
persecution, but upon the type of women that “ passed
the Bill,” for men had grown to expect something better
from these than a spur to barbarity ; it is said that women
may have become degraded owing to their patronage of
journals like the “ Daily Mirror,” which is full of cruel
pictures, such as that recently produced photograph of a
racer breaking its back in an accident-but women are
used to pain, and their imaginations are not such 2s to be
easily aroused and injured by anything so abstract as a
mere picture; it is only when they feel in positions of
power over some living thing that they become potentially
dangerous and degraded; when they arise inflamed
for reform by punishment, they are morally at their very
worst-and men should pronounce an unarguable No ”
to all their demands, remembering that the groom’s article
of belief that women’s tricks with the whip are copied in
hell is only a rough paraphrase of the canon that women
are unfit tor government; women of sound instinct and
sound tradition will invariably appeal for even excess of
persuasive reform and mercy; for in these things is their
own honourable protection; being by nature incapable
of culture, culture cannot be forced upon them-the’ culturable
woman is a freak of nature, and women never
allow her to forget her accidency ; happily for her, her
freakishness is usually very absorbing; (f) in fact, women
are women, and should be educated as such-to encourage,
stimulate, and reward even where they cannot wholly
understand. They should not prove dull in these three
accomplishments of charming hypocrisy-most women are
taught by love or similar necessity to practise them at
some time or another; (e) the women’s movement to-day
(the majority of women are not moving at all), is an affair
for physicians-“ advanced ” women are asking for votes
because, in fact, there is something wrong with marriage
-not enough, or too much, according to whether they are
married or single ; (f) men should neither marry nor enfranchise
Suffragettes, but simply insure; (9) most
women in private life are drabs and cats, though the
thing is almost too ordinary for re-statement, and most
women in public life are pretentious, vide Mrs. Pethick
Lawrence, Mrs. Annie Besant, and Mrs. Humphry Ward,
or minxes, vide the Duchess of Westminster, who recently
expressed sentiments to shock a Gaiety Girl about the
duty of exposing one’s shapely limbs, and Miss Elizabeth
Robins, who dished up the Caxton Bazaar lady’s white
slave tale in a novel, with all the impudence of invincible
lgnorance; (h) motherhood is a metier with Oriental
women and ‘some Germans, a trade with Americans and
Frenchwomen, but a miracle with Englishwomen who can
never realise how on earth it happened ; women’s influence
over children is a necessary evil, but in the case of
boys, it is usually corrected by means akin to the
mediaeval admonition to youths preparing for knighthood
- “ My son, first forget everything that your mother has
told YOU ; ” (i) in short, women, as a sex, are what Hesiod
called them-an irremediable woe !
If Mr. Hirst really believes me to be insincere, truthless,
and uncertain in my conclusions, I fear I cannot convince
him otherwise by the use of any better style than the
above. I, also, will take refuge in the columns of the
writer of ‘ ‘ Present-Day Criticism,” and quote thence certain
dicta regarding artistic subject. Mr. Hirst’s own
letter appears to me none too suave or distinguished
by beautiful expressions. I note, moreover, that his few
personal statements about women are contemptuous. TO
debate on the modern feminist movement, let alone with
a woman so unintelligent as “ K. B.,” is to risk confusing
one’s taste. I proved unable to reach her without loss of
style. In maintaining. that she was femininely vanquished
I offer her Trimalchlo for a champion, who will assure
her that in such victories, the vanquished conquers.”
Once more I apologise to those who are annoyed with
me. There are, alas, others besides Mr. Hirst ! The great
Pitt, as you, sir, remarked last week, more than once
ate too many pork pies. In ordinary, literary pork pies
are my humble aversion.]
*