Pastiche.
FRAGMENTS.
By Katherine Mansfield.
ALORS, JE PARS.
It is astonishing how violently a big branch shakes
when a little bird has left it. I expect the bird knows
it, and feels immensely arrogant. . . . My dear, you
cannot imagine the way he went on when I said I was
going to leave him. He was quite desperate! . . . But
now the branch is quiet again. Not a bud has fallen,
not a twig has snapped. It stands up in the bright air,
steady and fine, and thanks the Lord that it has got
its evenings to itself again.
LIVING ALONE.
Even if I should, by some awful chance, find a hair
upon my bread and honey-at any rate, it is my own
hair.
E. M. FORSTER.
Putting my weakest books to the wall, last night I
came across a copy of Howard’s End, and had a look
into it. But it’s not good enough. E. M. Forster never
He’s a rare
warm? Yes, but there ain’t going to be no tea.
BEWARE OF THE RAIN!
Late in the evening, after you have cleared away your
supper, blown the crumbs out of the book that you were
reading, lighted the lamp, and curled up in front of the
fire-that is the moment to beware of the rain. You are
conscious of a sudden hush. You open your eyes wide.
What’s that? Hullo, it’s raining! Reluctant at
first, and then faster and faster, tapping against the
window, beating on the door, comes the rain. The air
seems to change; you are so aware of the dark flowing
water that your hands and cheeks grow cold. You
begin to walk up and down. How loud the rain sounds!
You catch sight of yourself in the mirror, and you think
that you look very plain. You say to that plain creature
in the wavy glass : “I am twenty-eight, and I have
chosen, but absolutely deliberately chosen, to live quite
alone for ever.” The creature in the glass gives a short
laugh and says : “ C’est pour rire, ça.” But you reply
severely : “ Don’t speak French if you’re English; it’s
a vulgar habit.” Now there are quick steps coming up
the garden path, stopping at the door. Someone is
coming. But nobody knocks. Again there are steps
and again that pause as though someone felt for the
wet door-knocker in the dark. You are sure that
somebodyis there. Nobody. You remember that the kitchen
window is wide open. Is the rain
coming in? No, not really. You lean out a moment.
Two little roof gutters flow into the garden. In the
dark they sound like two women sobbing and laughing,
talking together and complaining and laughing, out in
the wet garden. One says : “ Life is not gay, Katherine.
No, life is not gay.” But now the rain is over. The
lamp-post outside, yellow in the light, with a spray of
shining tree across it, looks like a very bad illustration
out of a Dickens novel. Yes, it is quite over. You
make up the fire and squat before it, spreading our your
hands, as though you had been rescued, from a shipwreck,
and just to be alive and safe were bliss enough.
“ L. M.” came to see me the other evening; she
brought me some oysters. Oh! I said, the smell! of
them reminded me so of a little café in Marseilles. And
how well, I remembered one particular evening ! Just
then, I looked up. “L. M.’s” face had changedbecame
curiously blank and then serious and distressed.
“ One moment, dear,” said she; “ I must fly and pay
a little visit.” She flew, and came back all smiles and
readiness. “Yes, dear, one evening in the little café,”
said she, composing herself. But while she was away
it occurred to me that something of this kind invariably
happened whenever I wished to describe anything to
her. . . . “Would you just wait, dear, while I get a
hanky?” Or, “ Shall I put on a lump of coal before
you begin?” Or, “ Shall I just dash up to the kitchen
and put the kettle on?” . . . Then, “ About the little
café, dear. Do go on!” “ No; I’ve forgotten.” Very
distressed : “ Oh, you haven’t ! Not really.” “ Yes,
absolutely. Have you washed your hair lately? It’s
such a pretty colour-like lager beer.” “ No, I haven’t
washed it for ages. I must, though. It’s coming out
in handfuls, simply.” Which is the correct reply
according to the Book of Female Conversations?
CEPHALUS.
Run up and shut it.
“ L. M.’s ” WAY.
“‘ Certainly,’ he replied, with a smile, and immediately
withdrew to the sacrifices.” What an admirable
exit! I can always see his eyebrows and the way he
inclined his head as he spoke. And these three words,
“with a smile,” give the last perfect words. They;
seem to imply that he knew so very well what they,
were in for. . . . I have been re-reading the Republic,
walking up the ample, difficult staircase, taking breath
upon the little landings, struggling up the narrow ways.
At the top one does, quite finally, once and for all, tread
on the stair that isn’t there. Yes, but one’s foot rests
on something.