A Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
VI.
BARRINGEbReg an-and once more I may say that his
good sense highly gratified me-Well, Doran, not to
mince matters, I think you are sweating under a load
of male pride which is the cause of suffering not only
to yourself but to the girl in question. All the lime
that you are fancying yourself her protector and friend,
you are really acting as her enemy; and the relation
between you, being one of hypocrisy, is more than
unprofitable to you both. Well, said Doran, if you can
establish that, I shall be sore but grateful. To begin
with, went on Barringer, you are under the impression
that because men in general are stronger in every way
than women in general, any man (and you, in
particular) is stronger than any woman. But there are
exceptions, my friend; and I am disposed to think that
your case is one of them. No doubt you like to think
that you are under the general rule; but, on the
contrary, it appears to me that you are one of its exceptions.
To act, therefore, as if you were the rule and
not the exception, is to fall a victim to a generalisation.
And from what, asked Doran, do you so conclude?
From several of the things you have told me, replied
Barringer. In the first place, your coming together
was itself exceptional, and ought to have prepared you
for the sequel. How so? said Doran. Why, you as
the man in the affair did not behave as the man in the
rule, to choose of your own initiative the woman of
your fancy; but you were the choice of the woman on
her initiative. Is it not clear from this that, in respect
of sexual comparisons, she, and not you, is the more
masculine of you ? Perhaps so, reluctantly assented
Doran. Oh, but don’t conclude from that, Barringer
relieved him, that reflection is thereby cast upon your
manhood. Not at all. A man is not a man to every
woman; and there is no disgrace in his not being.
Women are so various that to one a man is a child, to
another he is a brother, to a third he is a friend, to a
fourth he is a lover, to a fifth he may be a bully, to a
sixth he may be of no sexual distinction whatever, and
so on; and it is only, perhaps, to one woman in all the
world that he occupies the precise relation of man.
That’s a good observation, said Doran. Very well,
then, continued Barringer, you can now allow without
hurting yourself that, as regards yourself and the girl,
you do not come under the general rule. The reverse
is, in fact, rather the case. And what precisely is the
reverse? Doran asked. Why, replied Barringer, that
she is the man in the case. But, objected Doran,
however that may be so in theory, the fact is that I
feel responsible for her, whereas she does not feel any
responsibility for me. How do you account for that?
Say, rather, Barringer returned, that however it may
be in theory, it is not so in fact; for, in fact, you are
not responsible for her, but it is only in theory that
you think you are. Not responsible-well, expostulated
Doran, why do I stay then, why do I put up with
what I do? Is it consideration for myself, is it any
advantage of comfort or companionship I derive from
her, is it my need of her that holds me? I repeat that
if she were to disappear this moment, and I were
assured that she was well, I should breathe relief. But
might not, Barringer ingeniously replied, might not
the hen with a duckling say the same of its charge?
And would it for all its maternal feelings of responsibility
actually be responsible? The fact and the feeling
of responsibility are two quite different things.
Howeveyro u may feel it, you cannot be responsible for what
is not within your own power; and however you may
generalise the matter, you cannot pretend that the girl
is within your control. Perhaps you are right, said
Doran, who was, however, less rueful than might
appear; but how do you account for my intense wish
to treat her well, and fer my apprehension of what may
befall her if I leave her on my own initiative? It is
not love! No, it is not love, Doran, said Barringer;
but, once again, it is vanity allied with a false theory.
You are vain enough to wish to act the man towards
her; and you are erroneous enough to think that you
can really do it. As a matter of fact, the me is as
untrue as the other : you are not only not the man for
her, but you only do her harm by attempting and
professing to be. I don’t quite see that, said Doran.
Forgive me, then, said Barringer, if I explain myself
too clearly. Suppose a kind-hearted boy in charge of
a young eagle-the bird, we can imagine, came to him
of its own accord with a lame wing or something. He
knows nothing of the nature of eagles or of their way
of life; but, by accident, he happens to be of temporary
use, and, by further accident, he chances to be of
continuouuss e. Then comes a day when the eagle
recovers and begins taking its flights, sometimes remaining
away for days, but always returning to its domestic
perch sooner or later. Is the relation thus established
between the boy and the eagle a permanent relation or
a natural relation, or one for the boy to feel responsible
for? And we may suppose that things become more
painful : the boy wishes to keep the eagle ,always on
its perch-and, in return for his unremitting service, to
insist upon the eagle’s unremitting gratitude-is that
good for either the boy or the eagle? I suppose not,
said Doran, but where are you getting to? To this,
replied Barringer, that you are engaged at this moment
in attempting to domesticate an eagle-to your own
hurt and the girl’s as well. I think she would be
flattered if she heard you say so, commented Doran. Oh,
as to that, replied Barringer, we can afford to be
indifferent. The mind is Protean, and while, in relation
to you, she may be eagle, in relation to somebody else
she may be a sparrow. People either belong to each
other, or they are of different species; but this latter
fact is obscured from most men by the circumstances
that in bodily form we all wear much the same disguise.
But how, then, asked Doran, can we tell who amongst
the people we meet are of our own order, and who,
relatively to ourselves, are of another species? I can
only answer, said Barringer, that with the one kind we
not only feel at home, but we are at home; with the
other we are always aware of a strain. Have you ever,
may I ask, felt at home in this sense with the girl?
Have you ever, that is, felt that you shared a common
hearth, and had all things in common? The experience
is quite unique; and, at the same time, it is unmistakable,
if you have once had it. But I gather that you
have not. Of course not, agreed Doran. On the
contrary, said Barringer, you have always been aware of
a strain? Decidedly, Doran replied; but it was just
that strain that appeared to me to be of value; for a
strain implies friction of mind, and friction of mind is
the condition, is it not, of experience?
I think, said Barringer, that Congreve had better
answer that. So I took up the story. Friction is,
indeed, I said, one of the conditions of one kind of
experience; but it is by no means the condition of the
best kind of experience. To believe that would be to
believe that Milton’s Satan’s knowledge is better than
the wisdom of God. Friction implies what you and
Barringer agree is the case, namely, that one is not
at home. It is, therefore, only of value as it serves to
prove that we are getting home. A bird out of its nest
experiences, we may suppose, friction in returning
thither. But it does not follow that once back in its
nest experiences will cease : only they are of a different
kind. Similarly, the experiences of a man in the wrong
place are, undoubtedly, experiences-but they are not
necessarily rea]. growth; they may be, and probably
are, so much wasted exertion in recovering his place.
You mean to say, then, said Doran, that all my
discomfort and strain is waste labour; and that friction is
not real experience? Except, I replied, as a warning
of what happens when you stray from home, and as a
means of learning the shortest way back, such experience,
I do really think, adds nothing of value to the
knowledge of the soul. Contentment, in fact (which
is to say, the sense of being where you ought to be), is
the condition of wisdom ; and all other knowledge and
experierice is false knowledge and false experience. I
begin to see your drift, said Doran.
If that is the case, resumed Barringer, the conclusion
is also becoming clear. It is your business to be at
home. And if you are not at home, do not flatter
yourseltfh at you are acquiring valuable experience, for you
are simply wasting your time, and, still worse, acquiring
false knowledge. Almost thou persuadest me, Doran
replied.