I wonder which is the nicest, the town,
provincial, or country type of person? For the three
kinds are as different as directions on the same signpost.
between
them. How small, for example, town people look after
those one sees in the provinces,, I once heard a man
from the Midlands remark. I think he was right.
People in country towns are certainly of a sturdier
build. And I am inclined to believe that their manners,
too, run in a sturdier mould. Perhaps things like
scrimmaging into a ’bus, arguing with taxi-drivers,
screaming through a ’phone, and so on, are not the best
training in good manners. Life in Town really is a
more hurried affair than it is in the country, and lack
of leisure entails lack of manners and grace, neither
of which is ever in a hurry. All good things have
something- lazy about them, said Nietzsche. On the
other hand, even that note of boisterousness in the tone
of “provincials” is so balanced by its sincerity that to
me it is more pleasant than unpleasant, and far and
away preferable to the affectation of the Town man and
woman. To carry the comparison into the country I
adapt Goldsmith : Every woman in the country is a
complete beauty, while the town class of women want
many of the requisites to make them even tolerable.
Perhaps Goldsmith was not referring only to physical
beauty. Whew, for instance, for intelligence, humour
and humanity, is the Town equal of the country
doctor’s and vicar’s daughters ? Country life makes
for immortality ; town life for transience. Country
people are annualists in their outlook on life. Town
people are journalists.
TUESDAY.--The general idea seems to be that so long
as one asks permission, letters may be opened at table
even when guests are present. But in a case, like this,
where either your guests or your letters must be
neglected, surely the best manners would be to neglect
the letters. I have sat at break-
There are even physical differences
I speak as a victim.
fast with the table littered like a paper-chase coursehost
reading, hostess reading, myself embarrassed
where to look. But my host, said I to myself, has no
right to display his business affairs on a private breakfasttable,
and my hostess has no right, thought I, to
air her private affairs on a willing stranger to them.
It is like telling me she has a secret without telling me
what it is. Not that I want to know, but she has no
right to flaunt it before me. Presently host and
hostess appear to think it required of them to smarten
up your annoyance with a trickle of vinegar. (Balm
isn’t the word for medicine that only makes matters
worse.) Gracie-you know little Gracie-my youngest
brother’s sister-in-law’s little girl-poor little Gracie-
Jack says Jill says she has such a bad cold. . . . Hmph !
-interesting letter from George-nephew, eldest
nephew, John’s eldest boy-most interesting-looks as
though zinc firm. . . . Now, of what sort of interest to
you is little Gracie’s cold, or nephew George’s opinion
of any zinc firm? Letters, I repeat, are not for table
consumption by hosts-or by guests for that matter.
The whole practice of opening letters before strangers
should be condemned by society. The contents of a
letter are usually for the addressee only, and neither
are they nor should they be made by a public reading
of them the unwelcome curiosity of either guest or host.
Another question at issue about the opening of letters
has been the occasion of many a lawsuit. Should a
husband open his wife’s letters? and vice versa. If,
as I suppose should be the case between man and wife,
they are early Christians, and what belongs to one
belongs to the other, there can be no doubt as to the right
of husband and wife to open each other’s letters. But
what, on the grounds of common courtesy and good
manners, I do doubt, is the expediency of exercising
the right as of right, and without first asking permission.
After all, a man is only presented with the freedom
of the city on the understanding that he will not
abuse it.
THURSDAY.-I should certainly go to see some people
(let me call them) more often if they didn’t ask me so
often-And not only ask me, but press me-And not
only press me, but demand me-And not only demand
me, but make it, by their refusal to accept any excuse,
almost impossible to refuse them. Do come again
tomorrow-Oh, but why not? Well, Thursday-Oh, but
why not? Well, Friday, then-Oh, hut why not ?
Well, just for an hour or two-Oh, but why not? Well,
surely next week you could manage it?-Such people
are social pests. Do they really think they are being
hospitable ? Was it hospitality that prompted the
spider to urge the fly into its parlour? Not a throb of
it-nothing but selfish ‘motives from beginning to end.
It just wanted that fly for its own unmentionably little
purposes. These spider-people who won’t let you
alone are not considering your pleasure, but their own.
No really hospitable person puts a visitor into a position
which leaves him with only one alternative to doing
what he doesn’t want to do-and that is to say so !
SATURDAy.-What, after all, are the purpose and
standard of good manners? Manners maketh the
man, said old William of Wykeham. Manners, at any
rate, reveal the man. And in saying this I distinguish
between the man qua man, and the man as a
professionaolf any kind. Man alternates between relations
that are social, and relations that are business. Social
manners should not be so threadbare that you can see
a man’s profession through them. They are a whole
garment. And, of course, they ought to be
distinguishefdro m business manners. It would be improper
for a man to let the idiosyncrasies of his personality
be seen in his business dealings. Unprofessional
conduct! The business man very properly adopts a
businessm anner to conceal his personal particularities, and
to safeguard his business transactions from the
interferenceo f personal vagaries. You go to a lawyer for
legal advice. You do not expect to be able to deduce
any of his social peculiarities from his conduct towards
you on a matter of business. But, reversely, you should
not be able to guess a man’s profession, or business
predilections, from his social behaviour. you do not
expect, or want, a doctor to bring his stethoscope
manners to dinner with him. Apropos of dinner
manners, I have heard it said that every woman is a typist
to a business man. The woman who made the remark
to me must have noticed business men bringing their
business manners into society. I came across an
example of perfect manners at an hotel last year. A man
came and stayed for a week-made himself very
pleasant, and was a general favourite among both men and
women visitors. After he had left, we compared notes.
What was his profession? Was he married? Was he
‘rich? What was his rank? Did he like life? Did he
like people? Where did he live? But none of us could
arrive at a common conclusion on a single point. The
man’s manners had very properly concealed everything
but the man in him. Man and Manners are one.