A Seventh Tale for Men
Only.
By R. H. Congreve.
VII.
When Doran had gone, Barringer and I discussed the
conversation through which we had just passed. Do
you think, I asked him, that we can do anything more
than we have done? Is Doran the man to carry out
his new ideas? Or must the girl be asked in to assist
him? What is in your mind? asked Barringer. Well,
I said, I have not seen the girl, and I have seen Doran;
and my impression is that, while he would be quite
willingt o see her go, he is really divided into equal halves
as to having her go at his accord or at her own. And
I was wondering whether it would be wiser of us to
wait upon events, or gently to attempt to precipitate
them, But how could we? said Barringer, I don’t
quite know, I replied, but, perhaps, you can decide. I
have a fancy that the chief difficulty with the girl is
money. At present, I gather, she depends normally
upon Doran. If she could see her way to depending
upon herself, either by finding another man with money,
or by a present sum in hand, I rather think, don’t you,
that she would make a final flight? I’m not so sure,
Barringer said, that the affair could be so easily settled.
Doran is a little more to the girl than just economics.
I grant that economics is a great deal; but a
permanent perch, even for an eagle, is an attraction.
Besides, Doran represents for her a hold on intellectual
society, for which, even if she is entirely alien to it,
she has, at any rate, a respect based on the prestige it
brings. Then you doubt, I said, whether money can
help us very much. For, otherwise, as you may guess,
I shouldn’t mind sending her a hundred pounds
anonymously. That I must leave to you, Barringer said ,
but I should not myself risk it. Well, I concluded, let
us leave the matter there.
All the next morning I could not get out of my mind
the thought that, perhaps, and probably, Barringer was
wrong. If the girl was such as he had described her,
she was plainly quite as ill at ease with Doran as he
with her. She was of an exotic type, and anything but
domestic. Doran, at most, was a convenience, and, in
many respects, a costly convenience. For it must
needs be against her nature wilfully to be inconsiderate
of any man, and the more so if it involved her in
unpleasant scenes. Other than the economic bond, what
was there to attach her to Doran? She may have
basked a little in the prestige of his intelligence; but,
sharing none of it herself, even his intelligence must
have appeared unintelligible to her. There was, at any
rate, no real bond in it. Suppose that, at a venture, I
sent her a hundred pounds, would she not find in it an
excuse for flight? But, then, there was Doran to conherself.
I determined to see her.
sider. No doubt he would prefer, if it were possible,
to pay her off himself, but was it possible? It would
be beneath his dignity to offer her money to go; and,
on the other hand, it might offend him if he learned
that I had done so. At the same time, what other
action would be mine than that of a father or guardian
similarly placed, with a ward in charge, entangled
monetarily with a for-any-reason undesirable acquaintance?
Would the ward be able justly to retort that
his guardian, in paying off the nuisance, had
contravenehdi s rights? But, again, had I any such rights
in the case of Doran? He had, it is true, confided in
me and Barringer, and confidence of that intimate kind
undoubtedly gives rights when the contrary is not
stipulated for as a condition. Was it inadvertence or
unsuspicion that led Doran to omit the stipulation?
Finally, it came home to me that everything depended
upon the girl. She was really the crux of my questionings.
Supposing that Doran should continue to shiver
on the brink, it was entirely a question of the girl’s
nature whether an assured economic, if only for a few
months ahead, would induce her to take the plunge
At about tea-time, therefore, I made my way to
Doran’s rooms, and knocked at the door. It was the
girl herself who opened it. She was certainly very
charming in an eery way, and her smile to me when I
announced my name and asked if Doran was in was
bewitching. Not that, however, I was really bewitched
by it; but I could not fail to see that for many men it
would be irresistible. Doran was not yet home, she
said, but she expected him in at any moment, and
would I wait. I decided to wait, and, meanwhile, to
make a few lunar observations. (For Barringer’s
description of her as fed on moonshine was obviously apt.)
I have only met Doran, I began, recently, hut I must
say that I admire him immensely. Yes, she said, I
suppose he does take in people who don’t know him as
well as I do. My stars, I thought, what a gaucherie!
The girl was as vulgar in mind as she was undoubtedly
charming in appearance, How the deuce could two
such traits appear in the same being? However, I
replied, Ah, we all flatter ourselves that we know our
friends best, when usually we know them worst. She
arched a little, but then appeared to forget what had
been said, for she went on : Do you know----, and
followed with a string of names of semi-celebrities with
whom, it appears, she was familiar. I caught her cue
and remarked that acquaintance with such people must
he very exciting. I couldn’t spare the time myself, I
said, to cultivate their company ; and, in any case, I was
too much out of the swim to feel anything hut a fish
out of water among them. Oh, hut you don’t look very
studious, Mr. Congreve, she smiled. You don’t know
me as well as I do, I echoed her. And do you never go
to the Pamir or to the-? she named half a dozen
resorts of cliques. Not for pleasure, I replied. Why,
you are as bad as Doran, she remarked. She would
have begun, I felt, a catalogue of Doran’s defects in
her eyes if I had encouraged her, but I had no fancy
for it. Instead, I bluntly observed, with the intention
of taking her by surprise, Why on earth do you live
with him then? The effect was by no means the one
I had expected; though it was of course, within my
calculations. Do you think, she burst out, that I live
with Doran for fun? I”m sure I don’t know, I said;
but if not for pleasure, what is it? Well, I’ll tell you,
Mr. Congreve, seeing you’d like to know : I live with
him because I jolly well will as long as I like, see?
When it suits me I shall go; but until it does I shall
stay. And, mark my words, .he shall stay with me !
Now you have your answer! I had, and to another
question as well, which was not in her mind. For
plainly it must now be Doran who should leave, since
to be left ignominiously and in defiance of his own
escape was not to be tolerated by a friend of mine. I
was about to make some icy remark when Doran came
in,
Ah, Congreve, he said, this is very kind of you. And
then he caught the girl’s glance and became uncomfortably
puzzled. What’s the matter, he asked. Before I
had time to answer, the girl jumped up and rushed
upstairs, banging the door behind her. We heard a
rumbling of furniture as if a removal were taking place.
Doran was pale with excitement. What has happened,
Congreve, he asked. I hope- the words died away
before they were fully formed; but I knew that he meant
to say that he hoped I had not deliberately precipitated
a climax for him. On my soul, Doran, I said, I’m
afraid my presence has, but not my words.
At this moment the girl appeared at the stairwaydoor,
fully dressed, and with a large bag in her hand.
Doran sprang to meet her. Sit down, sit down, she
said; and, above all, keep cool. I’m off, she said, for
the night and perhaps for the week, and perhaps for
ever. But I shall come back just when I please ! Mark
that, Mr. Congreve. But-began Doran, what about
your other things? Don’t be so silly; come and sit
down. I am that,
Doran, she said; but you may expect me back at any
time. Never, said Doran, never, never, never. And
as he said so, resolution knotted the muscles round
his mouth. What, shouted the girl, never-you say
never ? Never, repeated Doran. Oh, this is interesting,
she said, as if nonchalantly; this is quite interesting.
I suppose you say that to impress Mr. Congreve. I say
it, said Doran, to impress you and myself. Not for a
thousand Congreves would I have said it before; not
for a thousand shall I unsay it. The girl’s attitude had
changed; and I confess I admired her as much as I
admired Doran. There had been something, after all,
in the relation between them; or, rather, these were
natures, each substantial in itself, to be reIated if
they could have been. Very well, Doran, she said, I
believe you. Let it he never. And now, good-bye.
Doran then asked her if she had any money or a place
to go to. Neither, she said, but I am not afraid. Take
this, he said; and he went to his desk and took therefrom
hanknotes for fifty or so pounds. Thank you,
Doran, she said simply-, as she took them. There are
the makings of a man in you, after all; but not for me,
With these words she went, and closed the door after
her.
Doran ‘instantly threw himself upon the couch and
with his hands upon his covered face sobbed silently.
I sat still, not venturing to say a word. For a quarter
of an hour or so he did not cease. Then he got up and
turned to me with a smile through his tears like a
squirrel in rain upon a sunny tree-top. Can you put me
up for a few nights, he asked, until I can clear up these
rooms and find a fresh set? For as Iong as you please,
I answered.
You know you are not really going.
[THE END.]