Grand Passions.
A Proper Tale.
By Beatrice Hastings.
FOR the sake of brevity inquire not how the son of
Amhat came to be an eunuch. The tale goes back for
many generations. One would have to know all about
Ikho the First, who spat knives as fast as Boput spat
lies, and what is the use of learning all this? Suffice
that the son of Amhat, whose name was Prillo, was
an eunuch, To make up for it, Prillo ate; and he had
the most refined palate in the world He was the
gourmet who grilled things by the sun. Everybody
knew about him, of course, but nobody informed him
because of Amhat’s sovereign decree with its disagreeable
penalties. To find yourself turned into a fourlegged
bench for the convenience of passers-by is a
punishment below all dignity in Amhat’s country. So
nobody broke the decree; and Prillo grew up innocent
as a charming fat babe, and at eighteen years knew
not of any heaven outside his sun-grilled tit-bits.
Every day at noon he set out for the desert with a
retinue of courtiers carrying silver grills and golden
plates, and the whole caravan gleamed with monarchical
umbrellas like roses and tulips upside down. Half. a
mile from a certain vast rock, which was the hottest
spot on the Continent, the caravan was used to halt
and go to sleep while Prillo, t l e salamander, climbed
to the top of the rock and cooked his dinner. The
world lay on the other side of the burning rock. Prillo
had often gazed thither from his eyes that could gaze
anywhere in reason. Remember that he was only
eighteen an’d do not marvel when you hear that one
noon he set OR across the desert to see th’e world, Th’e
courtiers awaked an3 waited and sang the customary
culinary lyrics which were precisely like love-songsbut
Prill0 was nowhere to be found, and what happened
to the courtiers when Amhat held thk mourning orgies
is tou sad for this story.
Behold Prillo, gay as ignorance of love and money
might make him, catching up with a caravan that
looked from a distance like nothing but a purple cloud.
Actually it was all sweet ladies on camels and, in a
desert, even you would have found them :beautiful. They
halted suddenly, and waited for the royal and glitteringrobed
Prillo, shading their eyes with their gloved hands
and struck mute, or almost mute, at the sight of a
glorious, be-gemmed youth scudding over the molten
sand like a god Useless for the escort to urge flight
from the Devil; the ladies had not seen the Devil, and
were not to be moved on.
The Queen (of course this was no common affair of
a caravan !) waved her damsels to the rear and retired
to a “tent to feast with Prilllo. Her Majesty,
Florisade, retired to feast with Prillo. What a banquet
was spread ! Where was ever before seen a caravan
so immortally choice in dainties? There were hams in
glasses, tongues in tins, asparagus in bottles, haricots
verts, harengs et sardines, best mixed biscuits, horseradish
and tomato sauce. Yet of the two banqueters,
’twould be rash to say which sighed with the lesser
appetite. Prillo, the god-fed, lay like a smitten cherub,
his head that had never known lap harder than soft
cheese resting desperately upon the travel-stiff ankles
of Queen Florisade, these being the farthest part of her
from the tinned tongue ; and presently, when she could
bear the position no longer, and so gently swivelled
upon her axis, the adorable, and one may as well pronounce
it deeply adored, head came unresistingly m
her calves, and not very long after a little higher stilt.
Florisade had seen Love in many situations, and had
never been tou much moved; but even the most com
posed queen in the world may meet with her Adonis.
Florisade had met with hers,! Witting well that the
worst o f scandals would shortly jeopardise her very
life, she sat like Patience on a thin silk mat waiting
for the leaf-cheeked Prillo to become audacious.
Still he lay sighing, sighing, stretching wild hands
againsthe haricot verts, pressing his lovely com
complexion to crumples, overwhelmed and saying samething
about the ham. Florisade had an inspiration.
She pursed her lips, reached for the ham and held on
a silver fork a tiny morsel of the sustaining piglet.
With a suffocated cry Prillo flung himself upon her
breast, clasping her as she had never dreamed mortal
man might clasp, crushing her form in such grips of
passion as she had only heard of, and hiding his face
in her wildly throbbing bosom as if he never meant to
emerge again. He cried, sobbed, beseeched her in
tones to move a saint. Every instant Florisade believed
herself to have broken down and yielded the
jewel of her honour. She did not know where she was !
The world went black, white, scarlet, purple, gold,
green and an amazing pink. She was whirled
about, dashed, squeezed, and thrust on the point of
the flowery sword of Passion to heights like the
Himalayas, depths like black Erebus, through oceans
blazing and on fiery winds, up to the very clouds and
flaming stars. It all stilled down and she lay in a
vice-like grip, almost incapableven of wondering
whether Prillo had indeed died in the tempest or were
only sleeping the empurpled slumber after golden
moments. When the attendants came in to remove the
feast, they beheld what she might not hide, the senseless
Prillo wreathed in gigantic coils about her royal
and recumbent form. After this, Florisade resolved to
lose the world for Love. Whisperingly, she bade the
menials. leave the tent instantly. Then she set to work,
and with a mighty effort wriggled out of Prillo’s embrace.
She kissed him, cuddled him, poured water
upon his silken brow, smacked his palms and pinched
his fingers until at length, prodigiously, Prillo sat up.
“Dear,” said Florisade, “we are losing precious
moments. Let us fly.”
“Cruel one ! I am nearly dead !” replied Prillo.
“How couldst thou be so insensitive ? To offer me ham
when I was already overcome !”
“It was bete of me, darling, but I didn’t really know
what I was doing.”
“Thy glances promised me the food of gods for
always. Ham !”
‘‘I shall be yours, my own life, always, always.
Forget my stupidity !”
“The Sun himself was my cook, my food lay on a
silvern grill and a golden dish waited for the repast,
delightful and thrice purified. Ham !”
“You are the most original, and poetical, and mys
tical of sweet lovers, my delicate one But let us not
risk our future happiness. Men will kill us if we remain
here. Let us fly. I will just pack up a few of these
things-not the ham, dearest, so unpleasant to
memory, but the tongue and perhaps the sardines.” So
saying, Florisade, with that practical wisdom which is
the truest token of woman’s passion, turned to put the
things to*g ether.* * * * *
Prillo could never make one detail of his story quite
dear to Amhat and the new courtiers. For the
thousandth time, he recounted : “Then, when the Sun
had poured thrice his usual gift upon the silver grill,
and the butter of many clarifications boiled upon the
surface of the honied cake, goddesses snatched me
from the Rock and bore me to celestial regions. There
I fed hourly upon ineffable delights until sense could
contain the rapture no more. 0 Father and my
Friends, ask me not why I am arrived thus hungry
NO doubt the chemicals of such adventures subtly metamorphose.’’
But, of course, this was not the real
explanation !