The Black Cap.
By Katherine Mansfield.
(A LADY and her husband are seated at breakfast. He
is quite calm, reading the newspaper and eating;
but she is strangely excited, dressed for travelling,
and only pretending to eat.)
SHE: Oh, if you shouId want your flannel shirts, they
are on the right-hand bottom shelf of the linen
press.
HE (at a board meeting of the Meat Export Company) :
NO.
SHE: You didn’t hear what I said. I said if you
should want your flannel shirts, they are on the
right-hand bottom shelf of the linen press.
HE (positively) : I quite agree !
SHE: It does seem rather extraordinary that on the
very morning that I am going away you cannot
leave the newspaper alone for five minutes.
HE (mildly): My dear woman, I don’t want you to
go. In fact, I have asked you not to go. I can’t
for the life of me see . . .
SHE : You know perfectly well that I am only going
because I absolutely must. I’ve been putting it off
and putting it off, and the dentist said last
time . . .
Don’t let’s go all over the ground
again. We’ve thrashed it all out pretty hto
roughly, haven’t we ?
He : Good ! Good !
’SERVANT: Cab’s here, m’m.
SHE: Please put my luggage in.
SERVANT: Very good, m’m.
(SHE gives a tremendous sigh.)
HE : You haven’t got too much time if you want, to
catch that train.
SHE : I know. I’m going. (In a changed tone.)
Darling, don’t let us part like this., It makes me
feel so wretched. Why is it that you always seem
to take a positive delight in-spoiling my enjoyment ?
HE : I don’t think going to the dentist is so positively
enjoyable.
SHE: Oh, you know that’s not what I mean. You’re
only saying that to hurt me. You know you are
begging the question.
HE (laughing) : And you are losing your train. You’ll
be back on Thursday evening, won’t you?
SHE (in a low, desperate voice) : Yes, on Thursday
evening. Good-bye, then. (Comes over to him,
and takes his head in her hands.) Is there
anything really the matter? Do at least look at me.
Don’t you-care-at-all ?
HE : My darling girl; this is like an exit on the cinema.
SHE (letting her hands fall) : Very well. Good-bye.
(Gives a quick, tragic glance round the diningroom,
and goes.)
(On the way to the station.)
SHE: How strange life is! I didn’t think I should
feel like this at all. All the glamour seems to
have ,gone, somehow. Oh, I’d give anything for
the dab to turn round and go back. The most
curious thing is that I feel if he really had made
me believe he loved me it would have been much
easier to have left him. But that’s absurd. How
strong the hay smells. It’s going to be a very
hot day. I shall never see these fields again.
Never, never! But in another way I am glad
that it happened like this; it puts me so finally,
absolutely in the right for ever ! He doesn’t
want a woman at all. A woman has no meaning
for him. He’s not the type of man to care deeply
for anybody except himself. I’ve become the
person who remembers to take the links out of his
shirts before they go to the wash-that is all!
And that’s not enough for me. I’m young-I’m
too proud. I’m not the type of woman to vegetate
in the country and rave over “our” own lettuces.
. . . . What you have been trying to do ever
since you married me is to make me submit, to
turn me into your shadow, to rely on me so utterly
that you’d only to glance up to find the right
time printed on me somehow, as if I were a
clock. You have never been curious about me;
you never wanted to explore my soul. No; you
wanted me to settle down to your peaceful existence.
Oh ! how your blindness has outraged mehow
I hate you for it! I am glad-thankfulthankful
to have left you ! I’m not a green girl;
I am not conceited, but I do know my powers
It’s not for nothing that I’ve always longed for
riches and passion and freedom, and felt that they
were mine by right. (She leans against the
buttoned back of the cab, and murmurs.) “You are
a Queen. Let mine be the joy of giving you your
kingdom.” (She smiles at her little royal hands.)
I wish my heart didn’t beat so hard. It really
hurts me. It’s
like someone in a dreadful hurry beating against a
door. . . . This cab is only crawling along; we
shall never be at the station at this rate. Hurry!
Hurry ! My love, I am coming as quickly as ever
I can. Yes, I am suffering just like you. It’s
dreadful, isn’t it unbearable-this last half-hour
without each other. . . . Oh, God! the horse has,
begun to walk again. Why doesn’t he beat the
great strong brute of a thing. . . . Our wonderful
life ! We shall travel all over the world
together. The whole world shall be ours because
of our love. Oh, be patient! I am coming as
fast as I possibly can. . . . Ah, now it’s downhill;
now we really are going faster. (An old man
attempts to cross the road.) Get out of the way,
you old fool. He deserves to be run over. . . .
Dearest-dearest; I am nearly there. Only be
patient !
Put it in a first-class smoker. . . . There’s plenty
of time after all. A full ten minutes before the
train goes. No wonder he’s not here. I mustn’t
appear to be looking for him. But I must say
I’m disappointed. I never dreamed of being the
first to arrive. I thought he would have been here
and engaged a carriage and bought papers and
flowers. . . . How curious ! I absolutely saw in
my mind a paper of pink carnations. . . He knows
how fond I am of carnations. But pink
ones are not my favourites. I prefer dark red or
pale yellow. He really will be late if he doesn’t
come now. The guard has begun to shut the
doors. Whatever can have happened ? Something
dreadful. Perhaps at the last moment he has shot
himself. . . . I could not bear the thought of ruining
your life. . . . But you are not ruining my life.
Ah, where are you? I shall have to get into the
carriage. . . Who is this?, That’s not him! It
can’t be-yes, it is. What on earth has he got
on his head? A black cap. But how awful !
He’s utterly changed. What can he be wearing
a black cap for? I wouldn’t have known him.
How absurd he looks coming towards me, smiling,
in that appalling cap !
But the
most absurd, tragic-comic thing happened. (They
get into the carriage.) I lost my hat. It simply
disappeared. I had half the hotel looking for it.
It tires me so and excites me so.
(At the station.)
HE : My darling, I shall never forgive myself.
Not a sign! So finally, in despair, I had to
borrow this from another man who was staying
there. (The train moves off.) You’re not angry.
(Tries to take her in his arms.)
SHE : Don’t ! We’re not even out of the station yet.
HE (ardently): Great God ! What do I care if the
whole world were to see us? (Tries to take her
in his arms.)
SHE : Please don’t! I hate being kissed in trains.
HE (profoundly hurt) : Oh, very well. You are angry.
It’s serious. You can’t get over the fact that I
was late. But if you only knew the agony I
suffered . . . .
SHE : How can you think I could be so small-minded?
I am not angry at all.
HE : Then why won’t you let me kiss you?
SHE (laughing hysterically) : You look so different
somehow-almost a stranger.
HE (jumps up and looks at himself in the glass,
anxiously and fatuously, she decides) : But it’s
all right, isn’t it?
SHE: Oh, quite all right; perfectly all right. Oh,
oh, oh ! (She begins to laugh and cry with rage.)
(They arrive.)
It’s
an obsession. It’s incredible that anything should
change a man so. I must tell him. Surely it’s
quite simple to say : Don’t you think now that you
are in the city you had better buy yourself a hat?
But that will make him realise how frightful the
cap has been. And the extraordinary thing is
that he doesn’t realise it himself. I mean if he has
looked at himself in the glass and doesn’t think
that cap too ridiculous, how different our points
of view must be. . . . How deeply different. I mean,
if I had seen him in the street I would have said
I could not possibly love a man who wore a cap
like that. I couldn’t even have got to know him.
He isn’t my style at all. (She looks round.)
Everybody is smiling at it. Well, I don’t wonder !
The way it makes his ears stick out, and the way
it makes him have no back to his head at all.
HE : The cab is ready, my darling. (They get in.)
HE (tries to take her hand) : The miracle that we two
(SHE. arranges her veil.)
HE (tries to take her hand ; very ardent) : I’ll engage
“SHE : Oh, no !
HE: But don’t you think it would be wiser not to
SHE : I must have my own room. (To herself) You can
hang your cap behind your own door ! (She begins
to laugh hysterically.)
My queen is her happy self
again !
My wonder! My joy!
SHE (while he gets a cab) : I must get over this.
should be driving together, so simply, like this.
one room, my love.
Of course you must take two.
create suspicion ?
He: Ah! thank God!
(At the hotel.)
Manager : Yes, Sir; I quite understand. I think I’ve
got the very thing for you, Sir. Kindly step this
way. (He takes them into a small sitting-room,
with a bedroom leading out of it.) This would suit
you nicely, wouldn’t it? And if you liked, we
could make you up a bed on the sofa.
HE : Oh, admirable ! Admirabie !
(The MANAGER goes.)
SHE (furious): But I told you I wanted a room to
myself. I told
you I did not want to share a room. How dare
you treat me like this? (She mimics) Admirable!
Admirable ! I shall never forgive you for that !
HE (overcome): Oh God, what is happening! I don’t
understand-I’m in the dark. Why have you
suddenly, on this day of days, ceased to love me?
What have I done? Tell me !
If you do
What a trick to play upon me
SHE (sinks on the sofa) : I’m very tired.
love me, please leave me alone. I-I only want
to be alone for a little.
HE (tenderly) : Very well. I shall try to understand.
I do begin to understand. I’ll go out for half an
hour, and then, my love, you may feel calmer.
(He looks round, distracted. j
SHE : What is it?
HE : My heart-you are sitting on my cap. (She
gives a positive scream and moves into the
bedroom. He goes. She waits a moment, and then
puts down her veil, and takes up her suit-case.)
(In the taxi.)
SHE: Yes, Waterloo. (She leans back.) Ah, I’ve
escaped-I’ve escaped ! I shall just be in time to
catch the afternoon train home. Oh, it’s like a
dream-I’ll be home before supper. I’ll tell him
that the city was too hot or the dentist away.
What does it ,matter? I’ve a right to my own
home. . . . It will be wonderful driving up from
the station ; the fields will smell so delicious. There
is cold fowl for supper left over from yesterday,
and orange jelly. . . . I have been mad, but now
I am sane again. Oh, my husband !