In Confidence.
By Katherine Mansfield.
(FIVE young gentlemen are having no end of an argument
in a big, shadowy drawing-room. They are
tremendously at their ease, One is playing with the
ears and kissing the top of the head of a blue Persian
cat, two are sitting on the floor hugging their knees,
the fourth sprawls on a sofa, one leg doubled under
him, cutting a French book with a jade paper-knife,
and the fifth droops over the gleaming grand piano.
Marigold is curled up in a black chair. Now and again
she murmurs “How true that is” or “DO you really
think so?” Isobel sits on the arm of her chair,
4th Gentleman: But look here, all I wanted to say is
that the lack of prudery in France merely seems to
me to prove that the French do believe that man
is au fond a rational animal. You don’t dispute
that, do you? I mean-well-damn it all! their
literature’s based on it. Isn’t it?
2nd Gent. : And that, according to you, explains why
they seek their inspiration, their very inspiration,
in realism. Does it?
4th Gent. (superbly) : Of course it does. Absolutely.
How else are you going to explain it?
1st Gent. : Then a nation that’s “got prudery,’’ as
the Americans would say, is a nation that believes
man is not a rational animal?
5th Gent. (very bitterly) : There are things, say the
English, which are not to be talked about. Fermez
la porte, s’il vous plait.
3rd Gent. (greatly excited) : But look here-half a
minute-don’t go too fast; this is damned interesting.
Now we really are getting at something. -If
what you say is true, then prudery is a step
towards real art-what? For what do we mean.
by prudery? Prudery is false shame, the negative
to real shame; which again is, as it were, the
negativteo reverence. Reverence being the positive
quality, the thing that great art’s got to havewhat?
’
5th Gent. (extremely bitterly) : I heard a good bit of
Bowery slang the other day. (With a strong
Yankee drawl) : Put sand on your boots, kid;
you’re sliding.
4th Gent. : Oh. shut up. If you don’t want to talk,
go and play croquet. Yes, that’s what I was
2nd Gent. : And that, according to you, explains why
the English seek their inspiration, their very
inspiration, in idealism, does it?
And also why the English must
of necessity beat the French at this art game all
the time.
1st Gent. : Therefore it’s all a question of values-a
sense of moralities. . . .
3rd Gent. : And puts the stopper finally and
irrevocably on old man Kant-what?
(They burst out laughing. Under cover of their laughter
Marigold (lays her hand in Isobel’s lap):
Isobel smiles assent.)
smiling faintly.)
more or less driving at.
4th Gent. : Precisely.
‘‘Shall we slip away?”
(In the hall.)
Marigold (puts her arms round Isobel and lays her
head against Isobel’s shoulder) : Oh, I couldn’t
have stood that for another moment ; could you?
Aren’t men extraordinary? Don’t they ever grow
out of that kind of thing? No; never. They
have an insatiable hunger for hunting after
somethingth at nine out of ten women would have
captured without troubling to lift a finger. Too
absurd! They remind me of those big woolly
dogs who love to pretend to lose and pursue and
bark after and chase and root out the bone you’ve
thrown under their very noses. What on earth
makes them do it? Vanity, my dear, and the
masculine delight in showing off. Can’t you see
them in about an hour’s time thumping their tails
and licking their chops and saying more or less
aloud : “Well, we had a pretty stiff argument !”
Bother them! Let’s forget them. Look at the
heavenly afternoon that we’re wasting. Won‘t
you come out for a little walk with me? I don’t
seem to have had you to myself a moment yet.
And there are so many things I want to ask you.
(Isobel smiles.)
Marigold : I’ll just run up and put on a hat, and you
must, too, darling. The sun is so strong, and you
are not to get any more freckles an your nose,
you bad child! The freckles that you have got
are very charming-very sweet; but you can have
too many, don’t you think? And I never can see
why one should look like a milkmaid simply
because one lives in the country; can you? I’ve
got some lovely cream; I’ll give you a little to put
on to-night.
Marigold goes up to her room,
powders her face, smears a little rouge on her lips
and a little black on each eyelid; puts on a string
of- big green beads and takes them off again; puts
on a string of huge yellow beads and takes them
off again; puts on a string of carved stones and
lets them lie. Pins on an immense straw hat that
looks to have been pelted with its little bunches of
cherries, and ties it under her chin with some wide
tulle. Says to the person in the glass: “Emma,
Lady Hamilton,” and then bends her head forward
and shoots out her under-lip a little, and murmurs :
“Mrs. Siddons.” The person in the glass agrees.
Roots in a drawer full of dead white gloves, and
drifts downstairs.)
(They separate.
(On the road to the village.)
Marigold: Oh, the relief to be out in the sun and
among simple ardent things like fields and trees
and cattle. But you’re not very fond of the
country, are you? My dear, why should you
be? You feel more yourself in cafes and restaurants
and among crowds of people, and I feel more
at home in wet woods and dim fields or walking
by the sea. Neither is more right or higher-than
the other. If‘s just a question of one’s own
individual psychology ; don’t you agree? And,
curiously enough, about ten years ago I had just
the same feelings that you have-the same burning
curiosity about life, the same desire to
experience everything, no matter what, even to
throw myself away rather than be out of anything.
I think that all women of personality are bound
to go through that phase-for it is a phase, Isobel,
at any rate for women of real personality. And
I am sure the moment will come to you as it did to
me when you won’t be able to understand what
on earth you saw in that kind of life . . . when
the things of the spirit . . . when one is so
infinitely content to have Shelley for a friend rather
than . . You know what I mean? (Isobel smiles.)
Marigold: Of course, I don’t know at all what your
life is. It may be tremendously rich; I have an
idea that it is. Curious, isn’t it, how little we do
know of each other. Do you know me at all?
How hard it is to break the ice and melt towards
each other as one does so long to melt-doesn’t
one? Why are we so shy of each other? Have
you real intimate women friends? I am sure you
haven’t. And is it for the same reason that I
haven’t either? One simply can’t get over this
feeling of distrust, and Heaven knows one has
cause enough to feel it. Women are such traitors
to one another, aren’t they? One can feel that
one is everything to another woman, her dearest
friend-her closest-and the most commonplace
little man has only to come along and lift a finger
for her to betray you, to let you down ! It’s very
strange and awfully distressing, too-don’t you
feel? For, after all, Isobel, one does not always
want to have one’s hand held by a man, does one?
And women might be so wonderful together. . . .
I often feel I could appreciate a woman far better
than any man could-understand her so exquisitely
-sympathise so perfectly. But $here is the
woman who wants my friendship? Who will
confide in me? . . . Let us stand for a minute under
this lovely tree. It might be ,the one that Blake
saw the angels in. (Isobel looks up into the
branches, and smiles.)
,Marigold: Perhaps you and- I are going to be great
friends-what do you feel ? Sometimes I think
you like me-sometime8 I am not so sure. Strange
little secret person! Do you think that anything
you could tell me about your life and your
experience could shock me? You would not, my
dear. I bum to know and sympathise and understand.
I feel so strangely that we two are very
alike in a way. At any rate, we will have courage,
Isobel, and that is very rare. Perhaps we even
want the same things. What do you really want
to happen, Isobel? What do you want from life?
(Isobel shakes her head, and smiles.)
Marigold : Yes, you do; but you still shrink a little.
You are still a little bit wild with me. Ah, my
dear, you have no need to be. Trust me-you
really may ? It’s getting late ; we must rush back
for tea. It’s been lovely--lovely, this talk; hasn’t
it? Cleared the air so, and made everything so
simple and ardent. The heavenly sky full of little
Poussin cherubs. Isobel, dearest !
(They arrive.)
Maid : I’ve just taken in the tea, m’m.
Marigold (pressing Isobel’s hand) : Run and take off
your shoes. I must go and feed the famishing
horde.
(In the dining-room one young gentleman hovers over
the table; one wasp over the jam-pot.)
Marigold (holding back a curtain with one hand: a
portrait by Manet, she decides): Where are the
others?
Young Gentleman: The others have all gone for a
walk ; they followed you over the fields.
Marigold : Oh, we missed them ! Isobel will be down
in a moment; she’s just changing her shoes. Do
you like her? Very attractive, don’t you think?
Young Gentleman: Well-I find it rather a trial,
don’t you know, to keep at that level.
Marigold (looks at him a long moment too sweetly for
words) : Do you, really? That comforts me. I
had thought it must have been my fault. (In
confidence.) We have had the most “intense” talk
you can imagine. I tried to listen with my mind,
but all the while I have been feeling my soul, like
one of those little air balloons at the end of a
string, tugging and pulling to be off . . . simply
to float away into the blue and bob against nothing.
(Unties her hat strings, throws her hat away, and
runs her flashing fingers through her hair.) I feel
quite worn out. NO; I shall not ask Isobel again
in the summer; Isobel is a winter friend. One
can sit down and tackle her then with even a
kind of appropriate enthusiasm as one wades
through a suet pudding! I’m very wicked to
talk like this. . . . But you know I never feel that
her seriousness is quite sincere-do you? I often
feel that if a man were to absolutely ignore it and
were to approach her really cleverly . . .
(Isobel enters.)
Marigold: Ah, here you are, dearest. Sit by me.
Lovely you look in that black scarf ; doesn’t she?
Young Gentleman (with his mouth full of scone):
Lovely.
(Isobel looks at her tea, and smiles.)
