In the Bud

wandering outside time, as all children do, with
instinctive feet for the field where is most clover, for
the wood fullest of fairy bowers, for the tide lowest over
the weedy rocks.
This wind blows softly across shining waters.
I came into consciousness beside the sea. It must
have happened upon the dazzling shores of Algoa Bay;
for I had been brought to the town of Port Elizabeth
six months after my birth in London. I think I may
safely say that there was a picnic going on, since my
family almost habitually went a-picnicking, and that I
was the Baby and aged anything under two years. I
imagine that excitement and the heat had abnormally
expanded my animal brain: and what happened I
know. . . . I am about to describe my first glimpse of
earth, my entry into the life-theatre. It was a fitting
and dramatic entrance enough for any artist. And yet,
who noticed me come? The world was about its business.
I entered to confront Danger-Death, which danger
means to a little animal. I stood as in a cave before a
Mouth that approached, rolling to devour me. I looked
into its depths, motionless and dumb.
It sprang from my own
head, and flung down the walls about me and above me,
making room all around.
The slowest thing was the Mouth, still gliding on, and
now, in the light, appearing a Monster, green, flashing,
curling. All at once he angered me, rolling on thus to
eat me. I stiffened for fight.
The light streamed brighter, wider. It throbbed. I
beheld, racing, flashing, curling over the dazzling sand
-the Sea.
A girl in a white dress,
which came only half way down her legs, swung me up
the beach with her to safety. Safety was towards my
mother. The girl and I smiled together, our hearts
jumping, hers differently glad from mine. She smiled
down upon me.
I do not remember touching my
mother, or seeing her face. She was only a shadow
I distinguished and made for among many tall, moving
shadows. . . . I sank again into darkness. . . .
Out of the blue, but still isolated on all sides, comes
my second recollection. . . . I was saying that
our house, then, was semi-detached to a long, low
colonial store. The gutter in front, my world, naturally
ran past the door of that store. A few yards of gutter
on two sides of me-and upward as high as our
balcony : so much is all my scenery as the light floods
in once again. It discloses me about to climb up on
the pavement. I feel that I have been singing and
dancing. A sudden thing Gomes to the door of the
shop. She looks at me; and I
don’t like her. She has a white dress on, but I find her
Pooh !” I see her say to my pinafore, full of
beautiful things : my shining, smooth marbles, my glass
bottle with a hole in the top to let in sand, my ever so
many bits of glass. “ Pooh ! ” In recording now, I
can feel how my fatness quivered under the insult. Out
gleams my mother on the balcony above. My heart
welcomes her. She is my tribe. She shines in her
dress.
I hail her, exhibiting my treasures, and confidently
denounce my enemy to that enemy’s face. She fades
into the depths of her den.
My mother laughs, and I see her say something-I
feel it to be above me-and go in again. And I sit
down tremulously upon the pavement. I am disappointed.
I expected more from my mother. My teeth
click together, and there's to be done. I feel more on
somehow in the wrong, and, yet, in the right.
No one knew that I had emerged.
A sparkling light flamed.
Then, a hand caught mine.
The brilliance fades.
It is the lady of it.
ugly
The sun-sparkles have gone away. The dust bothers.
The wind mews. And then out comes Annie, black
Annie. I’m instantly on guard. Annie always washes
me. I won’t go.
Before she gets near me, I say, “ Nice Annie.” But
it isn’t wash-it is- ta grab at my pinafore. I arouse
the heavens, hang on, conquer, and am left alone. As
I balance up, the pavement kicks me on the toe. It is
too much. I seize a great stone and kill
it dead.
. . . A lovely blue sash, and beads, and a white dress
and socks. I am going out to a tea party, and-impossible,
but true-it is to be in the tent of a merry-goround.
The caravan is on the green at the back of our
house.
Suddenly we are there, among crowds of children.
It is Carrie’s party. Carrie is a girl bigger than me;
in fact, everybody seems bigger than me. I feel very
little and quiet. I move about slowly and lightly amid
chaos.
Carrie’s father is a big brown giant. He says grace
when we find ourselves sat down to tea. There is
something uncommon about this ritual :-
“ Little fishes-Lick the dishes-All round-Amen. ”
Striking, is it not?
It is said to be an extremely difficult feat to sprinkle
salt on a flying bird’s tail, but I imagine it scarcely more
difficult and delicate than this I am attempting-to
weight the wing of a five-year-old’s sensation, and trap
this into thought and cage it in words.
I did not laugh at that grace, although I knew that it was
stupendously funny. Something had arrested me. Perhaps
it was too funny. Perhaps the laughter following
was too boisterous, shocking to little nerves. I do not
remember hearing the noise, but to this day, loud
laughter turns me preternaturally solemn. In any case,
I did not laugh, but I did behold in a pause of startled
life the whole as a scene taking place outside me.
Light came in from an opening in the tent near the
tea-table. I was seated about the middle and with my
back to the near tent wall. The far side was in a brown
darkness, but some of the painted horses gleamed out.
The children were in an uproar and dancing about on
their seats. The brown giant was doubled up, the tea
things were reckless, and a plate lof cake had toppled
over and lay on the cloth.
But I, with the faintest smile-I saw exactly how I
looked and the exact poise of my body, leaning a little
back, and how my curls hung above the shoulders, and
the breadth of my sash high to the armpits-I beheld a
Picture.
It was a pageant for me. I comprehended the
people’s emotions while conscious of others quite
different in -myself. I had become aware of spectacle.
The dramatic sense was mine. I had mutely composed
my first poem, not to be confided until now, a long
quarter of a century afterwards. . . .
It is the most fascinating thing to put one’s head low
among the grass blades and look around through them.
Thereunder is a new world. There are webby things
that fly up as you look: solemn ones with backs like
the chair in the hall, wildly galloping ones, four old
uglies carrying off a wriggly worm. You release him
Anything in the air? Blue-and 1 shining white camels and dogs and elephants. Anything
down the hill? Far below, the sea running right into
the sky. You can’t get down to it, you can see that is
impossible. Those houses stand up in front. S’pose
they keep the sea from rushing up here. S’pose the
people who live in those houses all swim when they
want to go in and out. How hot everything
is.
Anything down the street? A little black girl. Conversation
begins; and you find out that she knows
where you can gather roses. tn a twinkling you are
there. It seems a twinkling but all the Iand is foreign.
There are low, black holes all round, and in and out of
the holes peep black faces. The piccaninny does not
seem to mind. You do not know that this is the Kafir
location by the burying ground, and that the holes are
I turn on it.
’ and he hides. . . .
It’s a puzzle.
doors in the low, round kraals which your unaccustomed
eyes do not focus.
Suddenly, you forget everything but the difficulty of
climbing the wall where the roses are. ’The little girl
offers you a tickey (threepenny bit) if you will get them.
All right. Up you go. It is a difficult matter to pluck
tough oleanders (Cape roses) on top of a wall, and when
they do come away, you have to throw them down to the
piccaninny before you can descend.
The two of you go down a hill you never knew you
had come up. Right high opposite is another hill, and
the little girl tells you that you live at the top. All right.
Good-bye. But you want the tickey. She says she will
go and get it from her mother. She will run quickly
while you wait.
As you are looking at her and nodding, you flush
suddenly. You realise that it will be of no use to wait.
She will never come back. . . .
Perhaps the most inevitable weed to grow in a dull
London garden is a bad conscience. . . . It is very
difficult now just to wander away on expeditions. You
have to escape . . . and altogether you don’t enjoy
yourself here. You cannot agree with the new régime
of the big people, who forbid you to go out of sight.
You hate being in sight. You examine the side gate;
it is very interesting. Anybody looking? Oo ! it opens.
You get a perfect fright and dart back into the garden
to make sure that you haven’t done anything. But you
have found them out in a story. There was no old man
there with toffee to coax you away.
How spidery this garden seems ! Next time you find
yourself at the gate it opens very softly. It shuts
softly, too, behind you.
Down below this dear little river is a meadow blazing
with gold flowers. It is worth all the long trudge, but
you knew you would find a place somewhere. You
gather, gather, gather and roll in the grass until a
shouting band sweeps suddenly along the bottom of the
meadow. A wild dash and you’ve reached them, and
are eagerly piercing for the centre of the ecstatic throng.
Everyone is hurrying over the bright field, madly shouting
and waving their arms. You fling up handfuls of
flowers out of your pinafore, and a man says something
and laughs like a dog.
People seem to have got angry. You are right in the
centre of them now, and behold two men stripping off
their shirts. They gleam out in the sunshine, and in a
flash you understand that they are going to fight. Some
men are shouting Bob; others, Dick. You shout Dick
because your brother’s name is Dick. Dick stands up
littler than Bob. He smiles as though Bob were nobody.
Bob says something, and whack ! Dick makes him be
quiet. Somehow, you comprehend that Bob has a habit
of saying things, and-that he would like to slip out of
the fight! Now a new shout. Police ! Police ! The
crowd is vanishing. All the people are melting away,
up the meadow and over the bridge, and you are alone.
Suddenly you remember that you have had no dinner :
and then, with frightful meaning, the sun sinks, making
your flight from meadow to bridge one bound. You ask
a policeman the way to Gascoigne Road. He stares
horridly, and says, “ It’s a long way. This is Hackney
Downs. He
points; and you nod and run away up it. Trudge,
trudge, slower and slower. The lamplighters appear,
terrifying you, for they never come out until tea is over.
At last you cheer up.
Out to a door comes a woman with a jug in her hand.
‘* Little girl,” she calls. “ Run-across-there-and-fetchme-
two-pennorth-of-ale-in-this-jug-and - I’ll-give - you-ahapenny.”
You hesitate. You’ve never seen ale, but
you know that it is Drink, and that Drink is the Devil.
But you are starving.
You bring the ale, seize the halfpenny and fly the
unholy place, to stop the pains in your tummy. You
buy a stick of liquorice in the first sweet-shop. It is black,
like your sin. You spit
out the bite you have and try another. No use. You
can’t swallow it.
You slip in
the area door, and lock yourself in the bathroom, im-
She only lives a little way.
Do you know your way up that road? ”
Here is a familiar corner.
Someone says this in your ear.
Marvel of virgin conscience !
Immediately, looms up your own house.
ploring God on your knees to let you off this time. In
the terrifying dark your sobs rise to yells of despair.
Someone calls your name and hammers at the dour, and
when you get the catch undone, behold! the entire
family with candles. And it seems as if everybody’s
mouth is wide open. . . .
Out of the pit of London, I was lifted into the paradise
of Sussex. I can with difficulty deny rhyme and
metre to the rhapsodical scenes which dazzle my
memory. Lilac and laburnum and green swards : swans,
peacocks and goldfish : rippling tides, seaweed and
dimpled sands : blackberries and a million buttercups in
one meadow. It never rained hard, nor was there but
one day of winter, and that all sparkling with snow.
Once there was a night and a moon-it was a moon of
blood, and I expected the Judgment and wrote down a
poem, but was ashamed to show it to the (big people.
But the Sun was a perpetual Somebody. He sat on
the fence making faces at me when I forgot to get up
early. He tied me around the waist with great golden
sashes whose ends he caught up into the air. He showed
me the gates of Heaven when the play of each day was
over. . . .
My best friend at this period was a milk-woman, to
.whom I used to play improvised sonatinas-all by
Mozart.
Mrs. Wells ! Thy plebeian frequenting cost me many
penalties. . . . We used to adjourn, after strawberries
and cream, in great state to the Parlour, where the
piano had stood silent since a little golden-haired
adopted daughter passed from earth. Mrs. Wells would
hear nothing but Mozart because her Nelly’s first, and
last, piece had been a tiny minuet by this master. Hence
the necessity for improvisation.
Dead, thyself, long since, I hope thou art happy now,
poor soul, and with thy Nelly, whom thy pride reflected
here for me : “so prim.”
. . . . She must have been a tired little girl who took
to falling asleep in broad daylight-on the stairs and in
the bath, and even at table. The doctor said : no books.
Perhaps bed is the solution in managing an infant who
cannot be induced to regard the doctor. But, on a
golden afternoon, when the happy shouts float up from
the green right on to your bed, it is rather likely to
inoculate you with ennui. You express your despair by
wishing you were dead. Next, you wish you had a
book All books have been removed. You are to sleep.
There must be a book somewhere. There is. It is
stuck away on the top of a cupboard. It is a fat book
compared with your kind, dark-covered and solemn
looking, but it’s better than nothing. It is called
“ Man and Wife.’’
I have never reperused that book, but I can hardly
accept for the plot that “ Geoffrey ” ran a footrace with
the idea of getting a good tea and a divorce-whatever
that may be! . . .
A literary introduction bringing extreme pleasure to
me took place through “ Louisa Manners’’ to dear
Charles Lamb. I lost Louisa in a hayfield, and Fortune
let many years elapse before arranging my second meeting
with Mr. Lamb; and then he had grown into
“ Elia.” The recalling of such flat epochs makes me
beat my wings and declare that a stock of good books
would have spared my relations the agony of beholding
my monotonous expulsions from various academies for
the stultification of genius. Yet, I subside, thankful at
least that though I had only three ,or four books, these
were the sterling old-fashioned ones-“ Grimm’s,”
“ Masterman Ready,” “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and of ail
in the world, “Doctor Syntax,” which I knew by heart.
These could not satisfy my mind, but also, they could
not corrupt my taste. . . .
It
is a frequent lament of artists that they suffered martyrdom
as solitary children, but genius wailing against
solitude must not be rigidly understood. It is the joy
of the blest ones to exploit themselves. . . .
One of my earliest attempts at expression took the
form of conducting imaginary orchestras. Occasion
brought a stranger to overlook me. And my indignation
is capable of a flush yet.