I came to earth willing my own will, seeking my own
ways, and with a song on my lips which the gods had
taught me.
Away, ye teachers, with your text-books, ye pilferers
of my worshipping hours, ye spies upon my primrose
temples, ye worms among my daisied altars--away all
ye who dared to-say, ‘‘ I will teach the child.”
I had to meet your threatening frowns with my
spiritful eyes. I had to hear your strict, cold voices
commanding me-me, the poet, the child of music.
My teachers were sunbeams and the children of the
showers. I learned from these the dance of life, the
song and the laughter. But all your teachings, your
wills und your ways and your thoughts I would I might
forget Ye shut me in from the shining mornings and
spent out my time among your theories. And some of
the teachings with which ye disturbed my mind-too
orderly to retain anything save what was useful to its
natural bent-are already discredited. Ye wasted my
time upon your guesses. My mill, because it was not
your will, ye made to appear like an impudent thing.
Ye bereft my way of beauty, ye made for me a schedule
of foolish tasks.
W a s I not born
free? Time enough when I had grown tall and strong
as yourselves for me to say whether I desired your
teachings. But ye knew that if ye unlocked your
prisons, nor I , nor any child running but would have
run from you; so ye seized me when I was little and
weak. Ye never heeded my tears when the birds in
the rose bush called me out to them. The birds flew up
and away-free birds Ye punished me when I went
to watch the beams dancing over the dewy grass.
The drops like a rainbow lifted, lifted, lifted-saw ye.
their flight? Your brazen hands dragged me back
from the doorway. Oh! and I was lifting, liftingflying
with the dew to the rosy cloudland. Ye shut me
in Miserable child, misfortuned poet, losing my wilt
and my way and my thought while I conned your bewildering
cler ildering books
W h y could ye not leave me free?
Ah, the Sun and the blue, blue sky. Ah, the leaves
and the birds and the mushroom pale in the green of
the meadow: Forbidden.
There was a shallow stream and a pool in the
spinney : Forbidden.
The buttercup field was free to the beast-to the
sheep that frisked among the golden hearts, free to the
cow und the blithe, rolling dog; but te me, who might
have translated the song of the yellow stars: Forbidden.
Ah, wildness of tears and despair in those darkened
days of my young-time.
* * * * * *
TARES.
I have always admired-taken the archaic sense of
the word, mingling wonder with reverence-the boldness
of certain painters who have made their own
portraits. I am not doing less; only hitherto, I have
needed to paint no accidental scars, but in the lovable,
beautiful image, as I came and as I was meant to
remain.
There are two photographs of me, one taken at five
years and the other at ten. ln the first I look like a
little Buddha; in the other I might pass for a mad
child or a tiger-cub.
About my sixth year I began to be aware that there
were giants upon earth. It was as well to avoid them
when possible : one usually seemed to be doing something
they did not like. . . . I remember the first
punishment which scarred my mind.
To be going out to tea is, as everyone knows, a great
affair. The tremendous enjoyment makes you skip
about and laugh high and say any funny thing you think
of. You forget that there are giants and your experience
that it is always wiser to creep about the
world than to jump and make a joyful noise. The time
has nearly come for you to put on your best pinafore
and be off, when a sudden knock falls upon the front
door: nothing-only Miss Wilkinson asking for one of
the Giants.
Now a strange thing has been happening to you that
moment, a strange, nice thing : words are tripping on
and off your tongue and you keep repeating them. They
seem to be running like ponies with your lips to guide
them :-
Pretty Polly Hopkins,
Pretty Polly Hopkins.
Miss Wilkinson is down in the hall kissing the giant,
Polly! How funny. Well you never And so you
who says, “ So pleased you’ve come, Polly-”
shout over the banister :-
Pretty Polly Hopkins.
The giant swings round, red in the face as a fire, and
Miss Wilkinson looks so ugly that you go away very
quietly. But suddenly you are downstairs in the grip of
the giant. Mother is pleading and even smiling, but
the giant is all black; you are awfully hot and standing
ready to fly.
You are not going
out to tea. All your head is boiling hot and the room
has gone red and streaks of black push across the red
and nearly jam your eyes out.
A door opens downstairs and you hold your breath.
Mother is speaking i n a sorry way-perhaps you are
going after all. You must go. Louie expects you.
“She’s getting too rude altogether,” says the giant,
and then the door shuts and all is deathly silent. You
hide yourself under the bedclothes. The world, indeed,
is full of giants, cruel, hateful giants, cruel, hateful,
ugly giants.
How terrible-only to cry, only to go to bed while
Louie must be waiting and wondering why you never
come.
There are giants everywhere you soon find out once
you’ve learned to recognise them. They keep schools;
and very busy you’ve got to be to save your life at all.
In revenge for numberless insults and canings, you
draw one of them and put three carrots for hair. Then
you get an awful caning and the giant sends you home
with a note : you may not go to her school any more. . .
One morning, all of us children were awakened
Next, you are in bed screaming.
while it was yet dark. A giant sister stood in the room
crying. “Baby has gone to Heaven,” she said. At
this all the children began to cry. I hid under the bedclothes.
“Why is Bee hiding?” asked one child.
‘ She never likes us to see her cry,” replied another.
But I was not crying, only very alarmed at everyone
else crying and abashed not to feel sorry too. That
day a great many flowers came for Baby. I spent my
penny on a bunch of white ones, which, some girls said,
you always gave to dead babies. We all got very excited
over the bargain, and I rushed joyfully home to
put my treasures with the rest in the lovely flowery
room. . . .
Between the wonderful moments of discovering new
and tricksy words, there were endless ages of time,
blank to recall, blank as no time can ever any more
be blank in this life. It can only be measured by miserable
bells tolling my passing from different
schools. I was forever being dragged from one school
to another. Outside these schools there seemed to be
always bright sunshine, and I suppose most days I
simply could not go in when the bell rang; and one day
or other I was sure to be sent home with the usual note :
the school would not have me. . . .
Another morning, I awoke very early. The giant was
gone from her bed. That was pleasant, and the Sun sat
in the garden outside the window. No sound was
anywhere. “ All the world’s dead,” I said, “ and I
don’t care.” I jumped up to dress and run out in the
garden. Then the door opened and the big sister came
in. “Come and see something,” she said, “but be
very quiet.’’ We went into the mother’s room, and
there was the Baby-come back. I was greatly pleased.
I had prayed many times that God would send her
back, because when she had been here before, I used to
steal the little white medicine sweets out of the
“ Homopafik” box, and at times a fear had haunted me
that I had not left enough in to make her well. Now,
too, I could make up for not being sorry when she went
to Heaven.
The
giants grew worse than ever. The mother was always
upstairs in bed and I had to eat onions, sit and eat
them every one, and the taste was nearly killing, all
cold and wormy. . . .
My last expulsion from school was for changing all
the words in a hymn to make it funny. I sank below
the pale now. Even my mother dared not condone this
crime. And, undoubtedly, the family held a council and
decided to banish me; for I was sent to boarding school.
The great house stood in a paradise of orchards and
plantations and fruit gardens. When I was taken with
my mother around the grounds, she and I forgot all
the scoldings and tears which had gone before my
leaving home. I, at any rate, forgot that I was a bad
girl. The new school seemed very fair indeed, and I
was enchanted with a little pond in the orchard.
That first sight of the fairy pool was about all I ever
had of it. Everything here had a time to be done in.
Every girl had a schedule. There was no space on the
schedule marked “ Play.” Our existence was to prepare
for examinations We were crammed with dull
knowledge and starved of every gracious and beautiful
thing. We had a Walk. Its time was immediately after
dinner. My stomach remembered its rebellion against
that sharp walk for many years. One was always
hurrying. At the greatest peril one paused for a
moment in a corridor, and when once I stayed quite a
long time at one of the windows and wept to see the
sun shining, I treasured as joyful experience that sighing
spell of liberty. Yet this was not a workhouse or
a reformatory, where the great maternal heart of
England consigns little children to be thus tortured,
but a high school and moderately expensive. But
Dotheboys Hall will never become extinct so long as
parents are permitted to exile their tiresome children.
Mrs. Squeers will only refine her methods.
I went to the high school with a bad character, and
so, perhaps, received special attention. But all of us
were overworked like worthless slaves. Neither by fair
labour nor by cheating could I gain respite. To linger,
I expect I forgot about being sorry very soon.
remembering my miserable eleventh year is still to
plunge myself in dejection. Before my first term was
up, the tireless family foot had tramped back to Africa.
My grief at being left used almost to strangle mgle me at
nights. . . .
Soon I grive the whole school influenza-including the
mistress and five of her seven children. They traced
it to me. I had wickedly caught it after disobediently
not changing my wet boots. One cannot but smile
twenty years after at a thing like that. But it was not
funny at the time, I was abused and badly neglected.
I recall one frightful evening when I was convalescent
and sitting alone in the stone-floored dining-room, that
I helped myself before tea to a piece of bread and
butter. In upon me pounced the mistress’s husband,
a horrible, greasy, foul, little, old vulture of a man
who spent his time spying upon us ; an orange-colour ed
little man, with tight, bird features and a great mass of
oily, black ringlets. He and his wife quarrelled
eternally. Their only interest in common, and at the
same time the cause of the worst squabbles, was the
family of seven children, all supposed to be born to
great destinies, poor little over-worked things.
This old man shook me all the way up the stairs to
bed. I lay choking and dreaming, stark awake in the
dusk. . . .
My
eldest sister had been left a widow, and as she was
proceeding to Africa, my parents decided to have me
out. The reports they had of my success in examinations
may have misled them as to my improvement.
My divine memory, though abused by the pedagogues,
never allowed me to fail when the facts were asked for.
I never in my life failed under examination : and I could
not compete to-day with the befooled prodigy I was in
‘my twelfth year. Those facts with which I had to arm
myself against the examiners were learned for the credit
of my teachers.
So dead was I, that I remember almost nothing during
the journey to Africa. My mind had been tampered
with and could not respond immediately, even to
Beauty. Released from the scrutiny of the mistress,
and only subject now to the intermittent strictness of
the strangely mild giant, I suppose I ate and played
and plagued people like an ordinary child. Only the
little sheltering bed remains as a clear picture of all
that voyage. It was so wonderful to wake and hear no
bell clanging, to dare to shut the eyes again and gather
up the sweet dream. . . .
We lived in the same house with the store next it,
the green at the back, the Kafir location still swarming
beside the burying ground. I began to revel in these
old memories. Once again there was room. The sun
rose in a wide sky from waves which shone until the
sight failed following them. Thirty miles of beach ran
from point to point of the bay, and behind the hilly
town the terraces of the coast range lay stretched as
flowery wildernesses beckoning onward, onward. . . .
There came a day-like all my awakening days flashing
between two blanks of night-upon which I came
abreast of the great Sense, that I was I. It was as if
I had been touched on the shoulder by my own self. I
had stepped into a room from a dark passage, to meet
a wild ocean of sunlight. Three people were in the
room. They appeared to me at that moment as an
extremely solid and connected mass. My voice said to
me, “ Go away, you have nothing to do with them. . .”