Stay=laces.
By Katherine Mansfield.
MRS. BUSK : I do hope I’m not late, dear, but I’ve just
had my hair washed, and you know what that means
for me. Even with that huge electric thing with the
elephant’s trunk for the air to come through it takes
hours and hours to dry. ‘The man said to-day he had
never seen longer or thicker hair.
Mrs. Bone: . . . !
Mrs. Busk : On the contrary. Good Heavens ! I’d
give anything on earth to get rid of it. You see, I
can’t do it fashionably; I can’t pack it away and scrape
it all up into a wisp like you can, darling. . . You’ve cut
one little military side-whisker since I saw you. . . .
Awfully dinky ! But you ought to put a spot of spirit
gum under it to make it lie flat on your cheek. Otherwise,
it doesn’t look the real thing. I mean it doesn’t
look intentional in the slightest. Well, you see, I didn’t
notice it myself until just this moment, and I’m awfully
observant, as you know. . . New hat, too, isn’t it?
Mrs. Bone : . . . ?
Mrs. Busk : Oh, sweet ! Oh, perfectly sweet little
absurdity ! I love its weeness and the way it perches.
Oh, my dear, imagine if we could have seen one of these
hats two years ago.. How we would have screamed! . .
Oughtn’t that one of yours be worn a little further over
the face. Try it.
Oh, no, darling, not as much as that. . . A little more
to the right--a little tug to the left-now just a shade
further off your head. That’s alright. I mean that
will do until you get to a glass,
I mean, rather more over one eye?
Mrs. Bone:. . . . !
Mrs. Busk : Oh, no, not a bit conspicuous. But if I
were you, I’d try wearing it with the back to the front.
That ducky little bird thing is lost at the back, and I
believe you are one of those rare women who can wear
a bird over your nose.
Mrs. Bone : . . .
Mrs. Busk : We had better take a penny ’bus. Oh,
how I do loathe getting on ’buses-keep close to me.
It’s no good your getting on if 1 don’t, dear. Look at
that enormous man in front of me-just look. And he
simply won’t move He simply won’t make any effort
to get out of my way. Don’t push so, please. Pushing
won’t help you.
Kindly move to
one side, and let me assist my Mother on to the bus.
My Mother is an in-va-leed Carefully please. A lady
wishes to get by. Move quite to one side, please. Do
not suffocate an in-va-Ieed lady !
(The ’bus goes off).
Who is pushing like this?
Lady in Grey : Let me pass, please.
Mrs. Busk : How ridiculous ! How absurd-behaviour
as though it was a shipwreck. She should have
waited for an empty ’bus. She can’t be in a hurry if
the Mother really is an invalid. Which I’m not at all
sure of. Look ! What do you think? Right at the
bottom of the ’bus. . . . Perfectly well and strong, I
should say. Of course, her head wobbles; but, then,
whose head wouldn’t at that age? No. I’m not suspicious
by nature ; in fact, I’m not suspicious enough ;
but, at the same time, women like that. . .
Stout Lady : You have heard about poor Muriel?
Friend : Oh, my dear, not another! Why the last is
not more than ten months old. Why does she have
them like this one after the other? And she is so
young, and she was so pretty-such a sweet, slight
figure. And that pokey little passage of her flat continually
jammed up with a hideous pram. It is too
bad and especially at a time like this, when everything
is so frightfully expensive, and there is always the
chance of the nurse failing you at the last moment.
When does she expect?
Stout Lady : Nothing of the kind.
Friend : What do you mean, dear? I thought you
Stout Lady : Nothing of the kind. (Mysteriously.) She
said quite definitely a moment ago.
was operated on yesterday morning.
Friend : Oh, how dreadful I
Stout Lady: A frightful operation. She was two
hours under the, chloroform, and the surgeon had to
Stand On A Chair.
Oh, what ever for?
Friend : But what ever was it, dear?
Stout Lady : Internal, of course.
Friend : But, what love?
Stout Lady (triumphant) : I cannot possibly tell you
Friend : How too frightful. Whisper I
Stout Lady : Im-possible !
Conductor : Selfridge’s ! Sel-fridges.
Mrs. Busk : Jump, dear, jump. It’s easy to see
you’re not a Londoner. Wasn’t that fearfully interesting?
I wonder what it really was. But such extraordinary
things do happen nowadays, that I don’t see
why she couldn’t say it, even in a ’bus. I thought the
war had done away with the idea that there was anything
you couldn’t speak about I mean the things one
reads in the papers, and the wounded that one even
sees in the streets have made such a difference haven’t
they? I love the wounded, don’t you? Oh, I simply
love them. And their sweet blue and red uniforms are
so cheerful and awfully effective, aren’t they ? I can’t
think who thought of that bright red tic against that
bright blue. It’s such a note isn’t it? . . . Let me see,
what is it I really do want to see first I
in a ’bus.
Mrs. Bone:. . . I
Mrs. Busk : It’s always the same at this shop. It’s
always packed. I was only saying to Cecil at breakfast
this morning that I redly think it’s awfully bad
taste to go on buying just as usual at a time like this.
Don’t you? He absolutely agreed. Of course, there
are necessary things that you simply can’t do without --
like corsets, for instance. Do you know where the
corset department is in this place? Ask that woman in
blue with the earrings. Aren’t the assistants extraordinary
here? I mean lots of them are university
women, or daughters of very wealthy men-stockbrokers,
you know, whose thing-ma-bobs have e fallen so
dreadfully since the war started. That woman in blue
-really-you might see her photograph in the
“Sketch.” Which is the Corset Department, please?
Acid Lady : Ask an assistant. I am trying on a hat.
Mrs. Busk : Good Heavens! What an awful mistake!
Rut, really, she had something of the shop
assistant about her, hadn’t she ? The earring --and
that enormous coloured comb. . . .
Sweet Thing : Corsets, madam?
Mrs. Busk: Yes. I want to see some corsets that
faster down in the front.
Mrs. Bone:. . . !
Mrs. Busk : Oh, my dear, haven’t you seen them?
They’ve been in the newspapers for weeks. They lace
down the front with just a little bit of elastic to give
YOU a grip just where you want it. I should think they
would be a very good idea, and so easy to get in and
out of.
Sweet Thing : We are selling a lot of this model
madam. You see it has the slashed hip as well, and it
washes beautifully. In fact, it is far better after it has
been washed. Some of our clients wash them even
before they put them on.
Mrs. Busk: Really! But is there any advantage in
washing them immediately ?
Sweet Thing : Oh. no advantage of course madam,
except, of course, that they do, as I say-wash beautiful
fully. And here is another style a little higher, to grip
the bust as well as the hips and the back.
They wash so beautifully.
Mrs. Busk : Does that wash, too?
Sweet Thing : Well, not as well as the first I showed
you. And here is a French model, madam. Sweet,
isn’t it, with two little forget-me-nots on each side of
the front.
Mrs. Rusk : How is that for washing?
Sweet Thing : We couldn’t guarantee the flowers
Mrs. Busk : Oh, wouldn’t you, really? What a
from fading, madam.
pity. It’s the only pair that I really like very much. I
think, then, I’d better leave it and think it over. Thank
you. It’s no good getting them if they are really not
reliable. Good-morning.
Mrs. Bone: . . . !
Mrs. Busk : Neither do I, my dear I’ve never had
a pair washed in my life. How extraordinary ! I
never thought of that. But perhaps it is just as well
I don’t think it is a good idea to have them fastening
down the front. You see, I don’t see what is to prevent
little blobs of flesh from poking through the holes. One
is SO much softer in front than at the back.
Mrs. Bone: . . . !
Mrs Busk : Yes, that’s what I thought. The
port would be a great comfort. Shall we go back and
have another look? I didn’t feel we exhausted the
problem a bit, did you? The girl wasn’t really helpful
-with all that rubbish about washing or not washing.
We’ll go up to the
palm court, have a quiet lunch, and go back after. The
thing to do at lunch is to order two sixpenny dishes, and
each have half of the other’s. . . Look at that enormous
Indian creature in khaki. . . . Do you think you could
ever be attracted by a dark man? I mean. Oh, you
know. . . .